0704.00001	Calculation of prompt diphoton production cross sections at Tevatron and  LHC energies	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:C. Balázs, E. L. Berger, P. M. Nadolsky, C.-P. Yuan	 Abstract: A fully differential calculation in perturbative quantum chromodynamics is presented for the production of massive photon pairs at hadron colliders. All next-to-leading order perturbative contributions from quark-antiquark, gluon-(anti)quark, and gluon-gluon subprocesses are included, as well as all-orders resummation of initial-state gluon radiation valid at next-to-next-to-leading logarithmic accuracy. The region of phase space is specified in which the calculation is most reliable. Good agreement is demonstrated with data from the Fermilab Tevatron, and predictions are made for more detailed tests with CDF and DO data. Predictions are shown for distributions of diphoton pairs produced at the energy of the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). Distributions of the diphoton pairs from the decay of a Higgs boson are contrasted with those produced from QCD processes at the LHC, showing that enhanced sensitivity to the signal can be obtained with judicious selection of events. 
0704.00002	Sparsity-certifying Graph Decompositions	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Ileana Streinu, Louis Theran	 Abstract: We describe a new algorithm, the $(k,\ell)$-pebble game with colors, and use it obtain a characterization of the family of $(k,\ell)$-sparse graphs and algorithmic solutions to a family of problems concerning tree decompositions of graphs. Special instances of sparse graphs appear in rigidity theory and have received increased attention in recent years. In particular, our colored pebbles generalize and strengthen the previous results of Lee and Streinu and give a new proof of the Tutte-Nash-Williams characterization of arboricity. We also present a new decomposition that certifies sparsity based on the $(k,\ell)$-pebble game with colors. Our work also exposes connections between pebble game algorithms and previous sparse graph algorithms by Gabow, Gabow and Westermann and Hendrickson. 
0704.00003	The evolution of the Earth-Moon system based on the dark matter field  fluid model	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Hongjun Pan	 Abstract: The evolution of Earth-Moon system is described by the dark matter field fluid model proposed in the Meeting of Division of Particle and Field 2004, American Physical Society. The current behavior of the Earth-Moon system agrees with this model very well and the general pattern of the evolution of the Moon-Earth system described by this model agrees with geological and fossil evidence. The closest distance of the Moon to Earth was about 259000 km at 4.5 billion years ago, which is far beyond the Roche's limit. The result suggests that the tidal friction may not be the primary cause for the evolution of the Earth-Moon system. The average dark matter field fluid constant derived from Earth-Moon system data is 4.39 x 10^(-22) s^(-1)m^(-1). This model predicts that the Mars's rotation is also slowing with the angular acceleration rate about -4.38 x 10^(-22) rad s^(-2). 
0704.00004	A determinant of Stirling cycle numbers counts unlabeled acyclic  single-source automata	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:David Callan	 Abstract: We show that a determinant of Stirling cycle numbers counts unlabeled acyclic single-source automata. The proof involves a bijection from these automata to certain marked lattice paths and a sign-reversing involution to evaluate the determinant. 
0704.00005	From dyadic $Λ_α$ to $Λ_α$	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Wael Abu-Shammala, Alberto Torchinsky	 Abstract: In this paper we show how to compute the $\Lambda_{\alpha}$ norm, $\alpha\ge 0$, using the dyadic grid. This result is a consequence of the description of the Hardy spaces $H^p(R^N)$ in terms of dyadic and special atoms. 
0704.00006	Bosonic characters of atomic Cooper pairs across resonance	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Y. H. Pong, C. K. Law	 Abstract: We study the two-particle wave function of paired atoms in a Fermi gas with tunable interaction strengths controlled by Feshbach resonance. The Cooper pair wave function is examined for its bosonic characters, which is quantified by the correction of Bose enhancement factor associated with the creation and annihilation composite particle operators. An example is given for a three-dimensional uniform gas. Two definitions of Cooper pair wave function are examined. One of which is chosen to reflect the off-diagonal long range order (ODLRO). Another one corresponds to a pair projection of a BCS state. On the side with negative scattering length, we found that paired atoms described by ODLRO are more bosonic than the pair projected definition. It is also found that at $(k_F a)^{-1} \ge 1$, both definitions give similar results, where more than 90% of the atoms occupy the corresponding molecular condensates. 
0704.00007	Polymer Quantum Mechanics and its Continuum Limit	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Alejandro Corichi, Tatjana Vukasinac, Jose A. Zapata	 Abstract: A rather non-standard quantum representation of the canonical commutation relations of quantum mechanics systems, known as the polymer representation has gained some attention in recent years, due to its possible relation with Planck scale physics. In particular, this approach has been followed in a symmetric sector of loop quantum gravity known as loop quantum cosmology. Here we explore different aspects of the relation between the ordinary Schroedinger theory and the polymer description. The paper has two parts. In the first one, we derive the polymer quantum mechanics starting from the ordinary Schroedinger theory and show that the polymer description arises as an appropriate limit. In the second part we consider the continuum limit of this theory, namely, the reverse process in which one starts from the discrete theory and tries to recover back the ordinary Schroedinger quantum mechanics. We consider several examples of interest, including the harmonic oscillator, the free particle and a simple cosmological model. 
0704.00008	Numerical solution of shock and ramp compression for general material  properties	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Damian C. Swift	 Abstract: A general formulation was developed to represent material models for applications in dynamic loading. Numerical methods were devised to calculate response to shock and ramp compression, and ramp decompression, generalizing previous solutions for scalar equations of state. The numerical methods were found to be flexible and robust, and matched analytic results to a high accuracy. The basic ramp and shock solution methods were coupled to solve for composite deformation paths, such as shock-induced impacts, and shock interactions with a planar interface between different materials. These calculations capture much of the physics of typical material dynamics experiments, without requiring spatially-resolving simulations. Example calculations were made of loading histories in metals, illustrating the effects of plastic work on the temperatures induced in quasi-isentropic and shock-release experiments, and the effect of a phase transition. 
0704.00009	The Spitzer c2d Survey of Large, Nearby, Insterstellar Clouds. IX. The  Serpens YSO Population As Observed With IRAC and MIPS	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Paul Harvey, Bruno Merin, Tracy L. Huard, Luisa M. Rebull, Nicholas Chapman, Neal J. Evans II, Philip C. Myers	 Abstract: We discuss the results from the combined IRAC and MIPS c2d Spitzer Legacy observations of the Serpens star-forming region. In particular we present a set of criteria for isolating bona fide young stellar objects, YSO's, from the extensive background contamination by extra-galactic objects. We then discuss the properties of the resulting high confidence set of YSO's. We find 235 such objects in the 0.85 deg^2 field that was covered with both IRAC and MIPS. An additional set of 51 lower confidence YSO's outside this area is identified from the MIPS data combined with 2MASS photometry. We describe two sets of results, color-color diagrams to compare our observed source properties with those of theoretical models for star/disk/envelope systems and our own modeling of the subset of our objects that appear to be star+disks. These objects exhibit a very wide range of disk properties, from many that can be fit with actively accreting disks to some with both passive disks and even possibly debris disks. We find that the luminosity function of YSO's in Serpens extends down to at least a few x .001 Lsun or lower for an assumed distance of 260 pc. The lower limit may be set by our inability to distinguish YSO's from extra-galactic sources more than by the lack of YSO's at very low luminosities. A spatial clustering analysis shows that the nominally less-evolved YSO's are more highly clustered than the later stages and that the background extra-galactic population can be fit by the same two-point correlation function as seen in other extra-galactic studies. We also present a table of matches between several previous infrared and X-ray studies of the Serpens YSO population and our Spitzer data set. 
0704.00010	Partial cubes: structures, characterizations, and constructions	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Sergei Ovchinnikov	 Abstract: Partial cubes are isometric subgraphs of hypercubes. Structures on a graph defined by means of semicubes, and Djokovi\'{c}'s and Winkler's relations play an important role in the theory of partial cubes. These structures are employed in the paper to characterize bipartite graphs and partial cubes of arbitrary dimension. New characterizations are established and new proofs of some known results are given. The operations of Cartesian product and pasting, and expansion and contraction processes are utilized in the paper to construct new partial cubes from old ones. In particular, the isometric and lattice dimensions of finite partial cubes obtained by means of these operations are calculated. 
0704.00011	Computing genus 2 Hilbert-Siegel modular forms over $\Q(\sqrt{5})$ via  the Jacquet-Langlands correspondence	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Clifton Cunningham, Lassina Dembele	 Abstract: In this paper we present an algorithm for computing Hecke eigensystems of Hilbert-Siegel cusp forms over real quadratic fields of narrow class number one. We give some illustrative examples using the quadratic field $\Q(\sqrt{5})$. In those examples, we identify Hilbert-Siegel eigenforms that are possible lifts from Hilbert eigenforms. 
0704.00012	Distribution of integral Fourier Coefficients of a Modular Form of Half  Integral Weight Modulo Primes	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Dohoon Choi	 Abstract: Recently, Bruinier and Ono classified cusp forms $f(z) := \sum_{n=0}^{\infty} a_f(n)q ^n \in S_{\lambda+1/2}(\Gamma_0(N),\chi)\cap \mathbb{Z}[[q]]$ that does not satisfy a certain distribution property for modulo odd primes $p$. In this paper, using Rankin-Cohen Bracket, we extend this result to modular forms of half integral weight for primes $p \geq 5$. As applications of our main theorem we derive distribution properties, for modulo primes $p\geq5$, of traces of singular moduli and Hurwitz class number. We also study an analogue of Newman's conjecture for overpartitions. 
0704.00013	$p$-adic Limit of Weakly Holomorphic Modular Forms of Half Integral  Weight	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Dohoon Choi, YoungJu Choie	 Abstract: Serre obtained the p-adic limit of the integral Fourier coefficient of modular forms on $SL_2(\mathbb{Z})$ for $p=2,3,5,7$. In this paper, we extend the result of Serre to weakly holomorphic modular forms of half integral weight on $\Gamma_{0}(4N)$ for $N=1,2,4$. A proof is based on linear relations among Fourier coefficients of modular forms of half integral weight. As applications we obtain congruences of Borcherds exponents, congruences of quotient of Eisentein series and congruences of values of $L$-functions at a certain point are also studied. Furthermore, the congruences of the Fourier coefficients of Siegel modular forms on Maass Space are obtained using Ikeda lifting. 
0704.00014	Iterated integral and the loop product	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Koichi Fujii	 Abstract: In this article we discuss a relation between the string topology and differential forms based on the theory of Chen's iterated integrals and the cyclic bar complex. 
0704.00015	Fermionic superstring loop amplitudes in the pure spinor formalism	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Christian Stahn	 Abstract: The pure spinor formulation of the ten-dimensional superstring leads to manifestly supersymmetric loop amplitudes, expressed as integrals in pure spinor superspace. This paper explores different methods to evaluate these integrals and then uses them to calculate the kinematic factors of the one-loop and two-loop massless four-point amplitudes involving two and four Ramond states. 
0704.00016	Lifetime of doubly charmed baryons	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Chao-Hsi Chang, Tong Li, Xue-Qian Li, Yu-Ming Wang	 Abstract: In this work, we evaluate the lifetimes of the doubly charmed baryons $\Xi_{cc}^{+}$, $\Xi_{cc}^{++}$ and $\Omega_{cc}^{+}$. We carefully calculate the non-spectator contributions at the quark level where the Cabibbo-suppressed diagrams are also included. The hadronic matrix elements are evaluated in the simple non-relativistic harmonic oscillator model. Our numerical results are generally consistent with that obtained by other authors who used the diquark model. However, all the theoretical predictions on the lifetimes are one order larger than the upper limit set by the recent SELEX measurement. This discrepancy would be clarified by the future experiment, if more accurate experiment still confirms the value of the SELEX collaboration, there must be some unknown mechanism to be explored. 
0704.00017	Spectroscopic Observations of the Intermediate Polar EX Hydrae in  Quiescence	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nceba Mhlahlo, David H. Buckley, Vikram S. Dhillon, Steven B. Potter, Brian Warner, Patric A. Woudt	 Abstract: Results from spectroscopic observations of the Intermediate Polar (IP) EX Hya in quiescence during 1991 and 2001 are presented. Spin-modulated radial velocities consistent with an outer disc origin were detected for the first time in an IP. The spin pulsation was modulated with velocities near ~500-600 km/s. These velocities are consistent with those of material circulating at the outer edge of the accretion disc, suggesting corotation of the accretion curtain with material near the Roche lobe radius. Furthermore, spin Doppler tomograms have revealed evidence of the accretion curtain emission extending from velocities of ~500 km/s to ~1000 km/s. These findings have confirmed the theoretical model predictions of King & Wynn (1999), Belle et al. (2002) and Norton et al. (2004) for EX Hya, which predict large accretion curtains that extend to a distance close to the Roche lobe radius in this system. Evidence for overflow stream of material falling onto the magnetosphere was observed, confirming the result of Belle et al. (2005) that disc overflow in EX Hya is present during quiescence as well as outburst. It appears that the hbeta and hgamma spin radial velocities originated from the rotation of the funnel at the outer disc edge, while those of halpha were produced due to the flow of material along the field lines far from the white dwarf (narrow component) and close to the white dwarf (broad-base component), in agreement with the accretion curtain model. 
0704.00018	In quest of a generalized Callias index theorem	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Andreas Gustavsson	 Abstract: We give a prescription for how to compute the Callias index, using as regulator an exponential function. We find agreement with old results in all odd dimensions. We show that the problem of computing the dimension of the moduli space of self-dual strings can be formulated as an index problem in even-dimensional (loop-)space. We think that the regulator used in this Letter can be applied to this index problem. 
0704.00019	Approximation for extinction probability of the contact process based on  the Gröbner basis	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Norio Konno	 Abstract: In this note we give a new method for getting a series of approximations for the extinction probability of the one-dimensional contact process by using the Gr\"obner basis. 
0704.00020	Measurement of the Hadronic Form Factor in D0 --> K- e+ nue Decays	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:The BABAR Collaboration, B. Aubert, et al	 Abstract: The shape of the hadronic form factor f+(q2) in the decay D0 --> K- e+ nue has been measured in a model independent analysis and compared with theoretical calculations. We use 75 fb(-1) of data recorded by the BABAR detector at the PEPII electron-positron collider. The corresponding decay branching fraction, relative to the decay D0 --> K- pi+, has also been measured to be RD = BR(D0 --> K- e+ nue)/BR(D0 --> K- pi+) = 0.927 +/- 0.007 +/- 0.012. From these results, and using the present world average value for BR(D0 --> K- pi+), the normalization of the form factor at q2=0 is determined to be f+(0)=0.727 +/- 0.007 +/- 0.005 +/- 0.007 where the uncertainties are statistical, systematic, and from external inputs, respectively. 
0704.00021	Molecular Synchronization Waves in Arrays of Allosterically Regulated  Enzymes	Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)	Authors:Vanessa Casagrande, Yuichi Togashi, Alexander S. Mikhailov	 Abstract: Spatiotemporal pattern formation in a product-activated enzymic reaction at high enzyme concentrations is investigated. Stochastic simulations show that catalytic turnover cycles of individual enzymes can become coherent and that complex wave patterns of molecular synchronization can develop. The analysis based on the mean-field approximation indicates that the observed patterns result from the presence of Hopf and wave bifurcations in the considered system. 
0704.00022	Stochastic Lie group integrators	Numerical Analysis (math.NA)	Authors:Simon J.A. Malham, Anke Wiese	 Abstract: We present Lie group integrators for nonlinear stochastic differential equations with non-commutative vector fields whose solution evolves on a smooth finite dimensional manifold. Given a Lie group action that generates transport along the manifold, we pull back the stochastic flow on the manifold to the Lie group via the action, and subsequently pull back the flow to the corresponding Lie algebra via the exponential map. We construct an approximation to the stochastic flow in the Lie algebra via closed operations and then push back to the Lie group and then to the manifold, thus ensuring our approximation lies in the manifold. We call such schemes stochastic Munthe-Kaas methods after their deterministic counterparts. We also present stochastic Lie group integration schemes based on Castell--Gaines methods. These involve using an underlying ordinary differential integrator to approximate the flow generated by a truncated stochastic exponential Lie series. They become stochastic Lie group integrator schemes if we use Munthe-Kaas methods as the underlying ordinary differential integrator. Further, we show that some Castell--Gaines methods are uniformly more accurate than the corresponding stochastic Taylor schemes. Lastly we demonstrate our methods by simulating the dynamics of a free rigid body such as a satellite and an autonomous underwater vehicle both perturbed by two independent multiplicative stochastic noise processes. 
0704.00023	ALMA as the ideal probe of the solar chromosphere	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. A. Loukitcheva, S. K. Solanki, S. White	 Abstract: The very nature of the solar chromosphere, its structuring and dynamics, remains far from being properly understood, in spite of intensive research. Here we point out the potential of chromospheric observations at millimeter wavelengths to resolve this long-standing problem. Computations carried out with a sophisticated dynamic model of the solar chromosphere due to Carlsson and Stein demonstrate that millimeter emission is extremely sensitive to dynamic processes in the chromosphere and the appropriate wavelengths to look for dynamic signatures are in the range 0.8-5.0 mm. The model also suggests that high resolution observations at mm wavelengths, as will be provided by ALMA, will have the unique property of reacting to both the hot and the cool gas, and thus will have the potential of distinguishing between rival models of the solar atmosphere. Thus, initial results obtained from the observations of the quiet Sun at 3.5 mm with the BIMA array (resolution of 12 arcsec) reveal significant oscillations with amplitudes of 50-150 K and frequencies of 1.5-8 mHz with a tendency toward short-period oscillations in internetwork and longer periods in network regions. However higher spatial resolution, such as that provided by ALMA, is required for a clean separation between the features within the solar atmosphere and for an adequate comparison with the output of the comprehensive dynamic simulations. 
0704.00024	Formation of quasi-solitons in transverse confined ferromagnetic film  media	Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)	Authors:A.A. Serga, M. Kostylev, B. Hillebrands	 Abstract: The formation of quasi-2D spin-wave waveforms in longitudinally magnetized stripes of ferrimagnetic film was observed by using time- and space-resolved Brillouin light scattering technique. In the linear regime it was found that the confinement decreases the amplitude of dynamic magnetization near the lateral stripe edges. Thus, the so-called effective dipolar pinning of dynamic magnetization takes place at the edges. In the nonlinear regime a new stable spin wave packet propagating along a waveguide structure, for which both transversal instability and interaction with the side walls of the waveguide are important was observed. The experiments and a numerical simulation of the pulse evolution show that the shape of the formed waveforms and their behavior are strongly influenced by the confinement. 
0704.00025	Spectroscopic Properties of Polarons in Strongly Correlated Systems by  Exact Diagrammatic Monte Carlo Method	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:A. S. Mishchenko (1 and 2), N. Nagaosa (1 and 3) ((1) CREST, Japan Science and Technology Agency, (2) Russian Research Centre ``Kurchatov Institute'', (3) The University of Tokyo)	 Abstract: We present recent advances in understanding of the ground and excited states of the electron-phonon coupled systems obtained by novel methods of Diagrammatic Monte Carlo and Stochastic Optimization, which enable the approximation-free calculation of Matsubara Green function in imaginary times and perform unbiased analytic continuation to real frequencies. We present exact numeric results on the ground state properties, Lehmann spectral function and optical conductivity of different strongly correlated systems: Frohlich polaron, Rashba-Pekar exciton-polaron, pseudo Jahn-Teller polaron, exciton, and interacting with phonons hole in the t-J model. 
0704.00026	Placeholder Substructures II: Meta-Fractals, Made of Box-Kites, Fill  Infinite-Dimensional Skies	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Robert P. C. de Marrais	 Abstract: Zero-divisors (ZDs) derived by Cayley-Dickson Process (CDP) from N-dimensional hypercomplex numbers (N a power of 2, at least 4) can represent singularities and, as N approaches infinite, fractals -- and thereby,scale-free networks. Any integer greater than 8 and not a power of 2 generates a meta-fractal or "Sky" when it is interpreted as the "strut constant" (S) of an ensemble of octahedral vertex figures called "Box-Kites" (the fundamental building blocks of ZDs). Remarkably simple bit-manipulation rules or "recipes" provide tools for transforming one fractal genus into others within the context of Wolfram's Class 4 complexity. 
0704.00027	Filling-Factor-Dependent Magnetophonon Resonance in Graphene	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:M. O. Goerbig, J.-N. Fuchs, K. Kechedzhi, Vladimir I. Fal'ko	 Abstract: We describe a peculiar fine structure acquired by the in-plane optical phonon at the Gamma-point in graphene when it is brought into resonance with one of the inter-Landau-level transitions in this material. The effect is most pronounced when this lattice mode (associated with the G-band in graphene Raman spectrum) is in resonance with inter-Landau-level transitions 0 -> (+,1) and (-,1) -> 0, at a magnetic field B_0 ~ 30 T. It can be used to measure the strength of the electron-phonon coupling directly, and its filling-factor dependence can be used experimentally to detect circularly polarized lattice modes. 
0704.00028	Pfaffians, hafnians and products of real linear functionals	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Péter E. Frenkel	 Abstract: We prove pfaffian and hafnian versions of Lieb's inequalities on determinants and permanents of positive semi-definite matrices. We use the hafnian inequality to improve the lower bound of R\'ev\'esz and Sarantopoulos on the norm of a product of linear functionals on a real Euclidean space (this subject is sometimes called the `real linear polarization constant' problem). 
0704.00029	Understanding the Flavor Symmetry Breaking and Nucleon Flavor-Spin  Structure within Chiral Quark Model	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Zhan Shu, Xiao-Lin Chen, Wei-Zhen Deng	 Abstract: In $\XQM$, a quark can emit Goldstone bosons. The flavor symmetry breaking in the Goldstone boson emission process is used to intepret the nucleon flavor-spin structure. In this paper, we study the inner structure of constituent quarks implied in $\XQM$ caused by the Goldstone boson emission process in nucleon. From a simplified model Hamiltonian derived from $\XQM$, the intrinsic wave functions of constituent quarks are determined. Then the obtained transition probabilities of the emission of Goldstone boson from a quark can give a reasonable interpretation to the flavor symmetry breaking in nucleon flavor-spin structure. 
0704.00030	Tuning correlation effects with electron-phonon interactions	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:J.P.Hague, N.d'Ambrumenil	 Abstract: We investigate the effect of tuning the phonon energy on the correlation effects in models of electron-phonon interactions using DMFT. In the regime where itinerant electrons, instantaneous electron-phonon driven correlations and static distortions compete on similar energy scales, we find several interesting results including (1) A crossover from band to Mott behavior in the spectral function, leading to hybrid band/Mott features in the spectral function for phonon frequencies slightly larger than the band width. (2) Since the optical conductivity depends sensitively on the form of the spectral function, we show that such a regime should be observable through the low frequency form of the optical conductivity. (3) The resistivity has a double kondo peak arrangement 
0704.00031	Crystal channeling of LHC forward protons with preserved distribution in  phase space	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:V. M. Biryukov (Serpukhov, IHEP)	 Abstract: We show that crystal can trap a broad (x, x', y, y', E) distribution of particles and channel it preserved with a high precision. This sampled-and-hold distribution can be steered by a bent crystal for analysis downstream. In simulations for the 7 TeV Large Hadron Collider, a crystal adapted to the accelerator lattice traps 90% of diffractively scattered protons emerging from the interaction point with a divergence 100 times the critical angle. We set the criterion for crystal adaptation improving efficiency ~100-fold. Proton angles are preserved in crystal transmission with accuracy down to 0.1 microrad. This makes feasible a crystal application for measuring very forward protons at the LHC. 
0704.00032	Probing non-standard neutrino interactions with supernova neutrinos	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:A. Esteban-Pretel, R. Tomàs, J. W. F. Valle	 Abstract: We analyze the possibility of probing non-standard neutrino interactions (NSI, for short) through the detection of neutrinos produced in a future galactic supernova (SN).We consider the effect of NSI on the neutrino propagation through the SN envelope within a three-neutrino framework, paying special attention to the inclusion of NSI-induced resonant conversions, which may take place in the most deleptonised inner layers. We study the possibility of detecting NSI effects in a Megaton water Cherenkov detector, either through modulation effects in the $\bar\nu_e$ spectrum due to (i) the passage of shock waves through the SN envelope, (ii) the time dependence of the electron fraction and (iii) the Earth matter effects; or, finally, through the possible detectability of the neutronization $\nu_e$ burst. We find that the $\bar\nu_e$ spectrum can exhibit dramatic features due to the internal NSI-induced resonant conversion. This occurs for non-universal NSI strengths of a few %, and for very small flavor-changing NSI above a few$\times 10^{-5}$. 
0704.00033	Convergence of the discrete dipole approximation. I. Theoretical  analysis	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Maxim A. Yurkin, Valeri P. Maltsev, Alfons G. Hoekstra	 Abstract: We performed a rigorous theoretical convergence analysis of the discrete dipole approximation (DDA). We prove that errors in any measured quantity are bounded by a sum of a linear and quadratic term in the size of a dipole d, when the latter is in the range of DDA applicability. Moreover, the linear term is significantly smaller for cubically than for non-cubically shaped scatterers. Therefore, for small d errors for cubically shaped particles are much smaller than for non-cubically shaped. The relative importance of the linear term decreases with increasing size, hence convergence of DDA for large enough scatterers is quadratic in the common range of d. Extensive numerical simulations were carried out for a wide range of d. Finally we discuss a number of new developments in DDA and their consequences for convergence. 
0704.00034	Origin of adaptive mutants: a quantum measurement?	Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)	Authors:Vasily Ogryzko	 Abstract: This is a supplement to the paper arXiv:q-bio/0701050, containing the text of correspondence sent to Nature in 1990. 
0704.00035	Convergence of the discrete dipole approximation. II. An extrapolation  technique to increase the accuracy	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Maxim A. Yurkin, Valeri P. Maltsev, Alfons G. Hoekstra	 Abstract: We propose an extrapolation technique that allows accuracy improvement of the discrete dipole approximation computations. The performance of this technique was studied empirically based on extensive simulations for 5 test cases using many different discretizations. The quality of the extrapolation improves with refining discretization reaching extraordinary performance especially for cubically shaped particles. A two order of magnitude decrease of error was demonstrated. We also propose estimates of the extrapolation error, which were proven to be reliable. Finally we propose a simple method to directly separate shape and discretization errors and illustrated this for one test case. 
0704.00036	A remark on the number of steady states in a multiple futile cycle	Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)	Authors:Liming Wang, Eduardo D. Sontag	 Abstract: The multisite phosphorylation-dephosphorylation cycle is a motif repeatedly used in cell signaling. This motif itself can generate a variety of dynamic behaviors like bistability and ultrasensitivity without direct positive feedbacks. In this paper, we study the number of positive steady states of a general multisite phosphorylation-dephosphorylation cycle, and how the number of positive steady states varies by changing the biological parameters. We show analytically that (1) for some parameter ranges, there are at least n+1 (if n is even) or n (if n is odd) steady states; (2) there never are more than 2n-1 steady states (in particular, this implies that for n=2, including single levels of MAPK cascades, there are at most three steady states); (3) for parameters near the standard Michaelis-Menten quasi-steady state conditions, there are at most n+1 steady states; and (4) for parameters far from the standard Michaelis-Menten quasi-steady state conditions, there is at most one steady state. 
0704.00037	The discrete dipole approximation for simulation of light scattering by  particles much larger than the wavelength	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Maxim A. Yurkin, Valeri P. Maltsev, Alfons G. Hoekstra	 Abstract: In this manuscript we investigate the capabilities of the Discrete Dipole Approximation (DDA) to simulate scattering from particles that are much larger than the wavelength of the incident light, and describe an optimized publicly available DDA computer program that processes the large number of dipoles required for such simulations. Numerical simulations of light scattering by spheres with size parameters x up to 160 and 40 for refractive index m=1.05 and 2 respectively are presented and compared with exact results of the Mie theory. Errors of both integral and angle-resolved scattering quantities generally increase with m and show no systematic dependence on x. Computational times increase steeply with both x and m, reaching values of more than 2 weeks on a cluster of 64 processors. The main distinctive feature of the computer program is the ability to parallelize a single DDA simulation over a cluster of computers, which allows it to simulate light scattering by very large particles, like the ones that are considered in this manuscript. Current limitations and possible ways for improvement are discussed. 
0704.00038	The discrete dipole approximation: an overview and recent developments	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Maxim A. Yurkin, Alfons G. Hoekstra	 Abstract: We present a review of the discrete dipole approximation (DDA), which is a general method to simulate light scattering by arbitrarily shaped particles. We put the method in historical context and discuss recent developments, taking the viewpoint of a general framework based on the integral equations for the electric field. We review both the theory of the DDA and its numerical aspects, the latter being of critical importance for any practical application of the method. Finally, the position of the DDA among other methods of light scattering simulation is shown and possible future developments are discussed. 
0704.00039	Scalar radius of the pion and zeros in the form factor	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Jose A. Oller, Luis Roca	 Abstract: The quadratic pion scalar radius, \la r^2\ra^\pi_s, plays an important role for present precise determinations of \pi\pi scattering. Recently, Yndur\'ain, using an Omn\`es representation of the null isospin(I) non-strange pion scalar form factor, obtains \la r^2\ra^\pi_s=0.75\pm 0.07 fm^2. This value is larger than the one calculated by solving the corresponding Muskhelishvili-Omn\`es equations, \la r^2\ra^\pi_s=0.61\pm 0.04 fm^2. A large discrepancy between both values, given the precision, then results. We reanalyze Yndur\'ain's method and show that by imposing continuity of the resulting pion scalar form factor under tiny changes in the input \pi\pi phase shifts, a zero in the form factor for some S-wave I=0 T-matrices is then required. Once this is accounted for, the resulting value is \la r^2\ra_s^\pi=0.65\pm 0.05 fm^2. The main source of error in our determination is present experimental uncertainties in low energy S-wave I=0 \pi\pi phase shifts. Another important contribution to our error is the not yet settled asymptotic behaviour of the phase of the scalar form factor from QCD. 
0704.00040	Multilinear function series in conditionally free probability with  amalgamation	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Mihai Popa	 Abstract: As in the cases of freeness and monotonic independence, the notion of conditional freeness is meaningful when complex-valued states are replaced by positive conditional expectations. In this framework, the paper presents several positivity results, a version of the central limit theorem and an analogue of the conditionally free R-transform constructed by means of multilinear function series. 
0704.00041	Quantum Group of Isometries in Classical and Noncommutative Geometry	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Debashish Goswami	 Abstract: We formulate a quantum generalization of the notion of the group of Riemannian isometries for a compact Riemannian manifold, by introducing a natural notion of smooth and isometric action by a compact quantum group on a classical or noncommutative manifold described by spectral triples, and then proving the existence of a universal object (called the quantum isometry group) in the category of compact quantum groups acting smoothly and isometrically on a given (possibly noncommutative) manifold satisfying certain regularity assumptions. In fact, we identify the quantum isometry group with the universal object in a bigger category, namely the category of `quantum families of smooth isometries', defined along the line of Woronowicz and Soltan. We also construct a spectral triple on the Hilbert space of forms on a noncommutative manifold which is equivariant with respect to a natural unitary representation of the quantum isometry group. We give explicit description of quantum isometry groups of commutative and noncommutative tori, and in this context, obtain the quantum double torus defined in \cite{hajac} as the universal quantum group of holomorphic isometries of the noncommutative torus. 
0704.00042	General System theory, Like-Quantum Semantics and Fuzzy Sets	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Ignazio Licata	 Abstract: It is outlined the possibility to extend the quantum formalism in relation to the requirements of the general systems theory. It can be done by using a quantum semantics arising from the deep logical structure of quantum theory. It is so possible taking into account the logical openness relationship between observer and system. We are going to show how considering the truth-values of quantum propositions within the context of the fuzzy sets is here more useful for systemics . In conclusion we propose an example of formal quantum coherence. 
0704.00043	Nonequilibrium entropy limiters in lattice Boltzmann methods	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:R.A. Brownlee, A.N. Gorban, J. Levesley	 Abstract: We construct a system of nonequilibrium entropy limiters for the lattice Boltzmann methods (LBM). These limiters erase spurious oscillations without blurring of shocks, and do not affect smooth solutions. In general, they do the same work for LBM as flux limiters do for finite differences, finite volumes and finite elements methods, but for LBM the main idea behind the construction of nonequilibrium entropy limiter schemes is to transform a field of a scalar quantity - nonequilibrium entropy. There are two families of limiters: (i) based on restriction of nonequilibrium entropy (entropy "trimming") and (ii) based on filtering of nonequilibrium entropy (entropy filtering). The physical properties of LBM provide some additional benefits: the control of entropy production and accurate estimate of introduced artificial dissipation are possible. The constructed limiters are tested on classical numerical examples: 1D athermal shock tubes with an initial density ratio 1:2 and the 2D lid-driven cavity for Reynolds numbers Re between 2000 and 7500 on a coarse 100*100 grid. All limiter constructions are applicable for both entropic and non-entropic quasiequilibria. 
0704.00044	Astrophysical gyrokinetics: kinetic and fluid turbulent cascades in  magnetized weakly collisional plasmas	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. A. Schekochihin (Oxford), S. C. Cowley (Culham), W. Dorland (Maryland), G. W. Hammett (Princeton), G. G. Howes (Iowa), E. Quataert (Berkeley), T. Tatsuno (Maryland)	 Abstract: We present a theoretical framework for plasma turbulence in astrophysical plasmas (solar wind, interstellar medium, galaxy clusters, accretion disks). The key assumptions are that the turbulence is anisotropic with respect to the mean magnetic field and frequencies are low compared to the ion cyclotron frequency. The energy injected at the outer scale scale has to be converted into heat, which ultimately cannot be done without collisions. A KINETIC CASCADE develops that brings the energy to collisional scales both in space and velocity. Its nature depends on the physics of plasma fluctuations. In each of the physically distinct scale ranges, the kinetic problem is systematically reduced to a more tractable set of equations. In the "inertial range" above the ion gyroscale, the kinetic cascade splits into a cascade of Alfvenic fluctuations, which are governed by the RMHD equations at both the collisional and collisionless scales, and a passive cascade of compressive fluctuations, which obey a linear kinetic equation along the moving field lines associated with the Alfvenic component. In the "dissipation range" between the ion and electron gyroscales, there are again two cascades: the kinetic-Alfven-wave (KAW) cascade governed by two fluid-like Electron RMHD equations and a passive phase-space cascade of ion entropy fluctuations. The latter cascade brings the energy of the inertial-range fluctuations that was damped by collisionless wave-particle interaction at the ion gyroscale to collisional scales in the phase space and leads to ion heating. The KAW energy is similarly damped at the electron gyroscale and converted into electron heat. Kolmogorov-style scaling relations are derived for these cascades. Astrophysical and space-physical applications are discussed in detail. 
0704.00045	Evolution of solitary waves and undular bores in shallow-water flows  over a gradual slope with bottom friction	Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)	Authors:G.A. El, R.H.J. Grimshaw, A.M. Kamchatnov	 Abstract: This paper considers the propagation of shallow-water solitary and nonlinear periodic waves over a gradual slope with bottom friction in the framework of a variable-coefficient Korteweg-de Vries equation. We use the Whitham averaging method, using a recent development of this theory for perturbed integrable equations. This general approach enables us not only to improve known results on the adiabatic evolution of isolated solitary waves and periodic wave trains in the presence of variable topography and bottom friction, modeled by the Chezy law, but also importantly, to study the effects of these factors on the propagation of undular bores, which are essentially unsteady in the system under consideration. In particular, it is shown that the combined action of variable topography and bottom friction generally imposes certain global restrictions on the undular bore propagation so that the evolution of the leading solitary wave can be substantially different from that of an isolated solitary wave with the same initial amplitude. This non-local effect is due to nonlinear wave interactions within the undular bore and can lead to an additional solitary wave amplitude growth, which cannot be predicted in the framework of the traditional adiabatic approach to the propagation of solitary waves in slowly varying media. 
0704.00046	A limit relation for entropy and channel capacity per unit cost	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:I. Csiszar, F. Hiai, D. Petz	 Abstract: In a quantum mechanical model, Diosi, Feldmann and Kosloff arrived at a conjecture stating that the limit of the entropy of certain mixtures is the relative entropy as system size goes to infinity. The conjecture is proven in this paper for density matrices. The first proof is analytic and uses the quantum law of large numbers. The second one clarifies the relation to channel capacity per unit cost for classical-quantum channels. Both proofs lead to generalization of the conjecture. 
0704.00047	Intelligent location of simultaneously active acoustic emission sources:  Part I	Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)	Authors:T. Kosel, I. Grabec	 Abstract: The intelligent acoustic emission locator is described in Part I, while Part II discusses blind source separation, time delay estimation and location of two simultaneously active continuous acoustic emission sources. The location of acoustic emission on complicated aircraft frame structures is a difficult problem of non-destructive testing. This article describes an intelligent acoustic emission source locator. The intelligent locator comprises a sensor antenna and a general regression neural network, which solves the location problem based on learning from examples. Locator performance was tested on different test specimens. Tests have shown that the accuracy of location depends on sound velocity and attenuation in the specimen, the dimensions of the tested area, and the properties of stored data. The location accuracy achieved by the intelligent locator is comparable to that obtained by the conventional triangulation method, while the applicability of the intelligent locator is more general since analysis of sonic ray paths is avoided. This is a promising method for non-destructive testing of aircraft frame structures by the acoustic emission method. 
0704.00048	Inference on white dwarf binary systems using the first round Mock LISA  Data Challenges data sets	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Alexander Stroeer, John Veitch, Christian Roever, Ed Bloomer, James Clark, Nelson Christensen, Martin Hendry, Chris Messenger, Renate Meyer, Matthew Pitkin, Jennifer Toher, Richard Umstaetter, Alberto Vecchio, Graham Woan	 Abstract: We report on the analysis of selected single source data sets from the first round of the Mock LISA Data Challenges (MLDC) for white dwarf binaries. We implemented an end-to-end pipeline consisting of a grid-based coherent pre-processing unit for signal detection, and an automatic Markov Chain Monte Carlo post-processing unit for signal evaluation. We demonstrate that signal detection with our coherent approach is secure and accurate, and is increased in accuracy and supplemented with additional information on the signal parameters by our Markov Chain Monte Carlo approach. We also demonstrate that the Markov Chain Monte Carlo routine is additionally able to determine accurately the noise level in the frequency window of interest. 
0704.00049	An algorithm for the classification of smooth Fano polytopes	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Mikkel Øbro	 Abstract: We present an algorithm that produces the classification list of smooth Fano d-polytopes for any given d. The input of the algorithm is a single number, namely the positive integer d. The algorithm has been used to classify smooth Fano d-polytopes for d<=7. There are 7622 isomorphism classes of smooth Fano 6-polytopes and 72256 isomorphism classes of smooth Fano 7-polytopes. 
0704.00050	Intelligent location of simultaneously active acoustic emission sources:  Part II	Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)	Authors:T. Kosel, I. Grabec	 Abstract: Part I describes an intelligent acoustic emission locator, while Part II discusses blind source separation, time delay estimation and location of two continuous acoustic emission sources. Acoustic emission (AE) analysis is used for characterization and location of developing defects in materials. AE sources often generate a mixture of various statistically independent signals. A difficult problem of AE analysis is separation and characterization of signal components when the signals from various sources and the mode of mixing are unknown. Recently, blind source separation (BSS) by independent component analysis (ICA) has been used to solve these problems. The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate the applicability of ICA to locate two independent simultaneously active acoustic emission sources on an aluminum band specimen. The method is promising for non-destructive testing of aircraft frame structures by acoustic emission analysis. 
0704.00051	Visualizing Teleportation	Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)	Authors:Scott M. Cohen	 Abstract: A novel way of picturing the processing of quantum information is described, allowing a direct visualization of teleportation of quantum states and providing a simple and intuitive understanding of this fascinating phenomenon. The discussion is aimed at providing physicists a method of explaining teleportation to non-scientists. The basic ideas of quantum physics are first explained in lay terms, after which these ideas are used with a graphical description, out of which teleportation arises naturally. 
0704.00052	Quantum Field Theory on Curved Backgrounds. II. Spacetime Symmetries	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Arthur Jaffe (1), Gordon Ritter (1) ((1) Harvard University)	 Abstract: We study space-time symmetries in scalar quantum field theory (including interacting theories) on static space-times. We first consider Euclidean quantum field theory on a static Riemannian manifold, and show that the isometry group is generated by one-parameter subgroups which have either self-adjoint or unitary quantizations. We analytically continue the self-adjoint semigroups to one-parameter unitary groups, and thus construct a unitary representation of the isometry group of the associated Lorentzian manifold. The method is illustrated for the example of hyperbolic space, whose Lorentzian continuation is Anti-de Sitter space. 
0704.00053	A Global Approach to the Theory of Special Finsler Manifolds	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Nabil L. Youssef, S. H. Abed, A. Soleiman	 Abstract: The aim of the present paper is to provide a global presentation of the theory of special Finsler manifolds. We introduce and investigate globally (or intrinsically, free from local coordinates) many of the most important and most commonly used special Finsler manifolds: locally Minkowskian, Berwald, Landesberg, general Landesberg, $P$-reducible, $C$-reducible, semi-$C$-reducible, quasi-$C$-reducible, $P^{*}$-Finsler, $C^{h}$-recurrent, $C^{v}$-recurrent, $C^{0}$-recurrent, $S^{v}$-recurrent, $S^{v}$-recurrent of the second order, $C_{2}$-like, $S_{3}$-like, $S_{4}$-like, $P_{2}$-like, $R_{3}$-like, $P$-symmetric, $h$-isotropic, of scalar curvature, of constant curvature, of $p$-scalar curvature, of $s$-$ps$-curvature. The global definitions of these special Finsler manifolds are introduced. Various relationships between the different types of the considered special Finsler manifolds are found. Many local results, known in the literature, are proved globally and several new results are obtained. As a by-product, interesting identities and properties concerning the torsion tensor fields and the curvature tensor fields are deduced. Although our investigation is entirely global, we provide; for comparison reasons, an appendix presenting a local counterpart of our global approach and the local definitions of the special Finsler spaces considered. 
0704.00054	The Hardy-Lorentz Spaces $H^{p,q}(R^n)$	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Wael Abu-Shammala, Alberto Torchinsky	 Abstract: In this paper we consider the Hardy-Lorentz spaces $H^{p,q}(R^n)$, with $0<p\le 1$, $0<q\le \infty$. We discuss the atomic decomposition of the elements in these spaces, their interpolation properties, and the behavior of singular integrals and other operators acting on them. 
0704.00055	Potassium intercalation in graphite: A van der Waals density-functional  study	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Eleni Ziambaras, Jesper Kleis, Elsebeth Schroder, Per Hyldgaard	 Abstract: Potassium intercalation in graphite is investigated by first-principles theory. The bonding in the potassium-graphite compound is reasonably well accounted for by traditional semilocal density functional theory (DFT) calculations. However, to investigate the intercalate formation energy from pure potassium atoms and graphite requires use of a description of the graphite interlayer binding and thus a consistent account of the nonlocal dispersive interactions. This is included seamlessly with ordinary DFT by a van der Waals density functional (vdW-DF) approach [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 246401 (2004)]. The use of the vdW-DF is found to stabilize the graphite crystal, with crystal parameters in fair agreement with experiments. For graphite and potassium-intercalated graphite structural parameters such as binding separation, layer binding energy, formation energy, and bulk modulus are reported. Also the adsorption and sub-surface potassium absorption energies are reported. The vdW-DF description, compared with the traditional semilocal approach, is found to weakly soften the elastic response. 
0704.00056	Phase diagram of Gaussian-core nematics	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Santi Prestipino, Franz Saija	 Abstract: We study a simple model of a nematic liquid crystal made of parallel ellipsoidal particles interacting via a repulsive Gaussian law. After identifying the relevant solid phases of the system through a careful zero-temperature scrutiny of as many as eleven candidate crystal structures, we determine the melting temperature for various pressure values, also with the help of exact free energy calculations. Among the prominent features of this model are pressure-driven reentrant melting and the stabilization of a columnar phase for intermediate temperatures. 
0704.00057	High-spin to low-spin and orbital polarization transitions in  multiorbital Mott systems	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Philipp Werner, Andrew J. Millis	 Abstract: We study the interplay of crystal field splitting and Hund coupling in a two-orbital model which captures the essential physics of systems with two electrons or holes in the e_g shell. We use single site dynamical mean field theory with a recently developed impurity solver which is able to access strong couplings and low temperatures. The fillings of the orbitals and the location of phase boundaries are computed as a function of Coulomb repulsion, exchange coupling and crystal field splitting. We find that the Hund coupling can drive the system into a novel Mott insulating phase with vanishing orbital susceptibility. Away from half-filling, the crystal field splitting can induce an orbital selective Mott state. 
0704.00058	Intelligent Life in Cosmology	Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)	Authors:Frank J. Tipler	 Abstract: I shall present three arguments for the proposition that intelligent life is very rare in the universe. First, I shall summarize the consensus opinion of the founders of the Modern Synthesis (Simpson, Dobzhanski, and Mayr) that the evolution of intelligent life is exceedingly improbable. Second, I shall develop the Fermi Paradox: if they existed they'd be here. Third, I shall show that if intelligent life were too common, it would use up all available resources and die out. But I shall show that the quantum mechanical principle of unitarity (actually a form of teleology!) requires intelligent life to survive to the end of time. Finally, I shall argue that, if the universe is indeed accelerating, then survival to the end of time requires that intelligent life, though rare, to have evolved several times in the visible universe. I shall argue that the acceleration is a consequence of the excess of matter over antimatter in the universe. I shall suggest experiments to test these claims. 
0704.00059	The Mass and Radius of the Unseen M-Dwarf Companion in the Single-Lined  Eclipsing Binary HAT-TR-205-013	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T. G. Beatty, J. M. Fernandez, D. W. Latham, G. A. Bakos, G. Kovacs, R. W. Noyes, R. P. Stefanik, G. Torres, M. E. Everett, C. W. Hergenrother	 Abstract: We derive masses and radii for both components in the single-lined eclipsing binary HAT-TR-205-013, which consists of a F7V primary and a late M-dwarf secondary. The system's period is short, $P=2.230736 \pm 0.000010$ days, with an orbit indistinguishable from circular, $e=0.012 \pm 0.021$. We demonstrate generally that the surface gravity of the secondary star in a single-lined binary undergoing total eclipses can be derived from characteristics of the light curve and spectroscopic orbit. This constrains the secondary to a unique line in the mass-radius diagram with $M/R^2$ = constant. For HAT-TR-205-013, we assume the orbit has been tidally circularized, and that the primary's rotation has been synchronized and aligned with the orbital axis. Our observed line broadening, $V_{\rm rot} \sin i_{\rm rot} = 28.9 \pm 1.0$ \kms, gives a primary radius of $R_{\rm A} = 1.28 \pm 0.04$ \rsun. Our light curve analysis leads to the radius of the secondary, $R_{\rm B} = 0.167 \pm 0.006$ \rsun, and the semimajor axis of the orbit, $a = 7.54 \pm 0.30 \rsun = 0.0351 \pm 0.0014$ AU. Our single-lined spectroscopic orbit and the semimajor axis then yield the individual masses, $M_{\rm B} = 0.124 \pm 0.010$ \msun and $M_{\rm A} = 1.04 \pm 0.13$ \msun. Our result for HAT-TR-205-013 B lies above the theoretical mass-radius models from the Lyon group, consistent with results from double-lined eclipsing binaries. The method we describe offers the opportunity to study the very low end of the stellar mass-radius relation. 
0704.00060	Coulomb excitation of unstable nuclei at intermediate energies	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:C.A. Bertulani, G. Cardella, M. De Napoli, G. Raciti, E. Rapisarda	 Abstract: We investigate the Coulomb excitation of low-lying states of unstable nuclei in intermediate energy collisions ($E_{lab}\sim10-500$ MeV/nucleon). It is shown that the cross sections for the $E1$ and $E2$ transitions are larger at lower energies, much less than 10 MeV/nucleon. Retardation effects and Coulomb distortion are found to be both relevant for energies as low as 10 MeV/nucleon and as high as 500 MeV/nucleon. Implications for studies at radioactive beam facilities are discussed. 
0704.00061	Intersection Bodies and Generalized Cosine Transforms	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Boris Rubin	 Abstract: Intersection bodies represent a remarkable class of geometric objects associated with sections of star bodies and invoking Radon transforms, generalized cosine transforms, and the relevant Fourier analysis. The main focus of this article is interrelation between generalized cosine transforms of different kinds in the context of their application to investigation of a certain family of intersection bodies, which we call $\lam$-intersection bodies. The latter include $k$-intersection bodies (in the sense of A. Koldobsky) and unit balls of finite-dimensional subspaces of $L_p$-spaces. In particular, we show that restrictions onto lower dimensional subspaces of the spherical Radon transforms and the generalized cosine transforms preserve their integral-geometric structure. We apply this result to the study of sections of $\lam$-intersection bodies. New characterizations of this class of bodies are obtained and examples are given. We also review some known facts and give them new proofs. 
0704.00062	On-line Viterbi Algorithm and Its Relationship to Random Walks	Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)	Authors:Rastislav Šrámek, Broňa Brejová, Tomáš Vinař	 Abstract: In this paper, we introduce the on-line Viterbi algorithm for decoding hidden Markov models (HMMs) in much smaller than linear space. Our analysis on two-state HMMs suggests that the expected maximum memory used to decode sequence of length $n$ with $m$-state HMM can be as low as $\Theta(m\log n)$, without a significant slow-down compared to the classical Viterbi algorithm. Classical Viterbi algorithm requires $O(mn)$ space, which is impractical for analysis of long DNA sequences (such as complete human genome chromosomes) and for continuous data streams. We also experimentally demonstrate the performance of the on-line Viterbi algorithm on a simple HMM for gene finding on both simulated and real DNA sequences. 
0704.00063	Experimental efforts in search of 76Ge Neutrinoless Double Beta Decay	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Somnath Choudhury	 Abstract: Neutrinoless double beta decay is one of the most sensitive approaches in non-accelerator particle physics to take us into a regime of physics beyond the standard model. This article is a brief review of the experiments in search of neutrinoless double beta decay from 76Ge. Following a brief introduction of the process of double beta decay from 76Ge, the results of the very first experiments IGEX and Heidelberg-Moscow which give indications of the existence of possible neutrinoless double beta decay mode has been reviewed. Then ongoing efforts to substantiate the early findings are presented and the Majorana experiment as a future experimental approach which will allow a very detailed study of the neutrinoless decay mode is discussed. 
0704.00064	Nilpotent symmetry invariance in the superfield formulation: the  (non-)Abelian 1-form gauge theories	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:R. P. Malik (Bhu)	 Abstract: We capture the off-shell as well as the on-shell nilpotent Becchi-Rouet-Stora-Tyutin (BRST) and anti-BRST symmetry invariance of the Lagrangian densities of the four (3 + 1)-dimensional (4D) (non-)Abelian 1-form gauge theories within the framework of the superfield formalism. In particular, we provide the geometrical interpretations for (i) the above nilpotent symmetry invariance, and (ii) the above Lagrangian densities, in the language of the specific quantities defined in the domain of the above superfield formalism. Some of the subtle points, connected with the 4D (non-)Abelian 1-form gauge theories, are clarified within the framework of the above superfield formalism where the 4D ordinary gauge theories are considered on the (4, 2)-dimensional supermanifold parametrized by the four spacetime coordinates x^\mu (with \mu = 0, 1, 2, 3) and a pair of Grassmannian variables \theta and \bar\theta. One of the key results of our present investigation is a great deal of simplification in the geometrical understanding of the nilpotent (anti-)BRST symmetry invariance. 
0704.00065	Littlewood-Richardson polynomials	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:A. I. Molev	 Abstract: We introduce a family of rings of symmetric functions depending on an infinite sequence of parameters. A distinguished basis of such a ring is comprised by analogues of the Schur functions. The corresponding structure coefficients are polynomials in the parameters which we call the Littlewood-Richardson polynomials. We give a combinatorial rule for their calculation by modifying an earlier result of B. Sagan and the author. The new rule provides a formula for these polynomials which is manifestly positive in the sense of W. Graham. We apply this formula for the calculation of the product of equivariant Schubert classes on Grassmannians which implies a stability property of the structure coefficients. The first manifestly positive formula for such an expansion was given by A. Knutson and T. Tao by using combinatorics of puzzles while the stability property was not apparent from that formula. We also use the Littlewood-Richardson polynomials to describe the multiplication rule in the algebra of the Casimir elements for the general linear Lie algebra in the basis of the quantum immanants constructed by A. Okounkov and G. Olshanski. 
0704.00066	Lagrangian quantum field theory in momentum picture. IV. Commutation  relations for free fields	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Bozhidar Z. Iliev (Institute for Nuclear Research and Nuclear Energy, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Sofia, Bulgaria)	 Abstract: Possible (algebraic) commutation relations in the Lagrangian quantum theory of free (scalar, spinor and vector) fields are considered from mathematical view-point. As sources of these relations are employed the Heisenberg equations/relations for the dynamical variables and a specific condition for uniqueness of the operators of the dynamical variables (with respect to some class of Lagrangians). The paracommutation relations or some their generalizations are pointed as the most general ones that entail the validity of all Heisenberg equations. The simultaneous fulfillment of the Heisenberg equations and the uniqueness requirement turn to be impossible. This problem is solved via a redefinition of the dynamical variables, similar to the normal ordering procedure and containing it as a special case. That implies corresponding changes in the admissible commutation relations. The introduction of the concept of the vacuum makes narrow the class of the possible commutation relations; in particular, the mentioned redefinition of the dynamical variables is reduced to normal ordering. As a last restriction on that class is imposed the requirement for existing of an effective procedure for calculating vacuum mean values. The standard bilinear commutation relations are pointed as the only known ones that satisfy all of the mentioned conditions and do not contradict to the existing data. 
0704.00067	Order of Epitaxial Self-Assembled Quantum Dots: Linear Analysis	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Lawrence H. Friedman	 Abstract: Epitaxial self-assembled quantum dots (SAQDs) are of interest for nanostructured optoelectronic and electronic devices such as lasers, photodetectors and nanoscale logic. Spatial order and size order of SAQDs are important to the development of usable devices. It is likely that these two types of order are strongly linked; thus, a study of spatial order will also have strong implications for size order. Here a study of spatial order is undertaken using a linear analysis of a commonly used model of SAQD formation based on surface diffusion. Analytic formulas for film-height correlation functions are found that characterize quantum dot spatial order and corresponding correlation lengths that quantify order. Initial atomic-scale random fluctuations result in relatively small correlation lengths (about two dots) when the effect of a wetting potential is negligible; however, the correlation lengths diverge when SAQDs are allowed to form at a near-critical film height. The present work reinforces previous findings about anisotropy and SAQD order and presents as explicit and transparent mechanism for ordering with corresponding analytic equations. In addition, SAQD formation is by its nature a stochastic process, and various mathematical aspects regarding statistical analysis of SAQD formation and order are presented. 
0704.00068	A Note About the {Ki(z)} Functions	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Branko J. Malesevic	 Abstract: In the article [Petojevic 2006], A. Petojevi\' c verified useful properties of the $K_{i}(z)$ functions which generalize Kurepa's [Kurepa 1971] left factorial function. In this note, we present simplified proofs of two of these results and we answer the open question stated in [Petojevic 2006]. Finally, we discuss the differential transcendency of the $K_{i}(z)$ functions. 
0704.00069	Dynamical Objects for Cohomologically Expanding Maps	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:John W. Robertson	 Abstract: The goal of this paper is to construct invariant dynamical objects for a (not necessarily invertible) smooth self map of a compact manifold. We prove a result that takes advantage of differences in rates of expansion in the terms of a sheaf cohomological long exact sequence to create unique lifts of finite dimensional invariant subspaces of one term of the sequence to invariant subspaces of the preceding term. This allows us to take invariant cohomological classes and under the right circumstances construct unique currents of a given type, including unique measures of a given type, that represent those classes and are invariant under pullback. A dynamically interesting self map may have a plethora of invariant measures, so the uniquess of the constructed currents is important. It means that if local growth is not too big compared to the growth rate of the cohomological class then the expanding cohomological class gives sufficient "marching orders" to the system to prohibit the formation of any other such invariant current of the same type (say from some local dynamical subsystem). Because we use subsheaves of the sheaf of currents we give conditions under which a subsheaf will have the same cohomology as the sheaf containing it. Using a smoothing argument this allows us to show that the sheaf cohomology of the currents under consideration can be canonically identified with the deRham cohomology groups. Our main theorem can be applied in both the smooth and holomorphic setting. 
0704.00070	Coincidence of the oscillations in the dipole transition and in the  persistent current of narrow quantum rings with two electrons	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:He Yanzhang, Bao Chengguang	 Abstract: The fractional Aharonov-Bohm oscillation (FABO) of narrow quantum rings with two electrons has been studied and has been explained in an analytical way, the evolution of the period and amplitudes against the magnetic field can be exactly described. Furthermore, the dipole transition of the ground state was found to have essentially two frequencies, their difference appears as an oscillation matching the oscillation of the persistent current exactly. A number of equalities relating the observables and dynamical parameters have been found. 
0704.00071	Pairwise comparisons of typological profiles (of languages)	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:S. Wichmann, E.W. Holman	 Abstract: No abstract given; compares pairs of languages from World Atlas of Language Structures. 
0704.00072	The decomposition method and Maple procedure for finding first integrals  of nonlinear PDEs of any order with any number of independent variables	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Yu.N. Kosovtsov	 Abstract: In present paper we propose seemingly new method for finding solutions of some types of nonlinear PDEs in closed form. The method is based on decomposition of nonlinear operators on sequence of operators of lower orders. It is shown that decomposition process can be done by iterative procedure(s), each step of which is reduced to solution of some auxiliary PDEs system(s) for one dependent variable. Moreover, we find on this way the explicit expression of the first-order PDE(s) for first integral of decomposable initial PDE. Remarkably that this first-order PDE is linear if initial PDE is linear in its highest derivatives. The developed method is implemented in Maple procedure, which can really solve many of different order PDEs with different number of independent variables. Examples of PDEs with calculated their general solutions demonstrate a potential of the method for automatic solving of nonlinear PDEs. 
0704.00073	A transcendental approach to Kollár's injectivity theorem	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Osamu Fujino	 Abstract: We treat Koll\'ar's injectivity theorem from the analytic (or differential geometric) viewpoint. More precisely, we give a curvature condition which implies Koll\'ar type cohomology injectivity theorems. Our main theorem is formulated for a compact K\"ahler manifold, but the proof uses the space of harmonic forms on a Zariski open set with a suitable complete K\"ahler metric. We need neither covering tricks, desingularizations, nor Leray's spectral sequence. 
0704.00074	Injective Morita contexts (revisited)	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:J. Y. Abuhlail, S. K. Nauman	 Abstract: This paper is an exposition of the so-called injective Morita contexts (in which the connecting bimodule morphisms are injective) and Morita $\alpha$contexts (in which the connecting bimodules enjoy some local projectivity in the sense of Zimmermann-Huisgen). Motivated by situations in which only one trace ideal is in action, or the compatibility between the bimodule morphisms is not needed, we introduce the notions of Morita semi-contexts and Morita data, and investigate them. Injective Morita data will be used (with the help of static and adstatic modules) to establish equivalences between some intersecting subcategories related to subcategories of modules that are localized or colocalized by trace ideals of a Morita datum. We end up with applications of Morita $\alpha$-contexts to $\ast$-modules and injective right wide Morita contexts. 
0704.00075	Strong decays of charmed baryons	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Chong Chen, Xiao-Lin Chen, Xiang Liu, Wei-Zhen Deng, Shi-Lin Zhu	 Abstract: There has been important experimental progress in the sector of heavy baryons in the past several years. We study the strong decays of the S-wave, P-wave, D-wave and radially excited charmed baryons using the $^3P_0$ model. After comparing the calculated decay pattern and total width with the available data, we discuss the possible internal structure and quantum numbers of those charmed baryons observed recently. 
0704.00076	CP violation in beauty decays	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Michael Gronau	 Abstract: Precision tests of the Kobayashi-Maskawa model of CP violation are discussed, pointing out possible signatures for other sources of CP violation and for new flavor-changing operators. The current status of the most accurate tests is summarized. 
0704.00077	Universal Forces and the Dark Energy Problem	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Afsar Abbas	 Abstract: The Dark Energy problem is forcing us to re-examine our models and our understanding of relativity and space-time. Here a novel idea of Fundamental Forces is introduced. This allows us to perceive the General Theory of Relativity and Einstein's Equation from a new pesrpective. In addition to providing us with an improved understanding of space and time, it will be shown how it leads to a resolution of the Dark Energy problem. 
0704.00078	Linear perturbations of matched spacetimes: the gauge problem and  background symmetries	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Marc Mars, Filipe C. Mena, Raul Vera	 Abstract: We present a critical review about the study of linear perturbations of matched spacetimes including gauge problems. We analyse the freedom introduced in the perturbed matching by the presence of background symmetries and revisit the particular case of spherically symmetry in n-dimensions. This analysis includes settings with boundary layers such as brane world models and shell cosmologies. 
0704.00079	Operator algebras associated with unitary commutation relations	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Stephen C. Power (Lancaster University), Baruch Solel (Technion)	 Abstract: We define nonselfadjoint operator algebras with generators $L_{e_1},..., L_{e_n}, L_{f_1},...,L_{f_m}$ subject to the unitary commutation relations of the form \[ L_{e_i}L_{f_j} = \sum_{k,l} u_{i,j,k,l} L_{f_l}L_{e_k}\] where $u= (u_{i,j,k,l})$ is an $nm \times nm$ unitary matrix. These algebras, which generalise the analytic Toeplitz algebras of rank 2 graphs with a single vertex, are classified up to isometric isomorphism in terms of the matrix $u$. 
0704.00080	Shaping the Globular Cluster Mass Function by Stellar-Dynamical  Evaporation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Dean E. McLaughlin, S. Michael Fall	 Abstract: We show that the globular cluster mass function (GCMF) in the Milky Way depends on cluster half-mass density (rho_h) in the sense that the turnover mass M_TO increases with rho_h while the width of the GCMF decreases. We argue that this is the expected signature of the slow erosion of a mass function that initially rose towards low masses, predominantly through cluster evaporation driven by internal two-body relaxation. We find excellent agreement between the observed GCMF -- including its dependence on internal density rho_h, central concentration c, and Galactocentric distance r_gc -- and a simple model in which the relaxation-driven mass-loss rates of clusters are approximated by -dM/dt = mu_ev ~ rho_h^{1/2}. In particular, we recover the well-known insensitivity of M_TO to r_gc. This feature does not derive from a literal ``universality'' of the GCMF turnover mass, but rather from a significant variation of M_TO with rho_h -- the expected outcome of relaxation-driven cluster disruption -- plus significant scatter in rho_h as a function of r_gc. Our conclusions are the same if the evaporation rates are assumed to depend instead on the mean volume or surface densities of clusters inside their tidal radii, as mu_ev ~ rho_t^{1/2} or mu_ev ~ Sigma_t^{3/4} -- alternative prescriptions that are physically motivated but involve cluster properties (rho_t and Sigma_t) that are not as well defined or as readily observable as rho_h. In all cases, the normalization of mu_ev required to fit the GCMF implies cluster lifetimes that are within the range of standard values (although falling towards the low end of this range). Our analysis does not depend on any assumptions or information about velocity anisotropy in the globular cluster system. 
0704.00081	Quantum Deformations of Relativistic Symmetries	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:V.N. Tolstoy (INP, Moscow State University)	 Abstract: We discussed quantum deformations of D=4 Lorentz and Poincare algebras. In the case of Poincare algebra it is shown that almost all classical r-matrices of S. Zakrzewski classification correspond to twisted deformations of Abelian and Jordanian types. A part of twists corresponding to the r-matrices of Zakrzewski classification are given in explicit form. 
0704.00082	Matter-Wave Bright Solitons with a Finite Background in Spinor  Bose-Einstein Condensates	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Tetsuo Kurosaki, Miki Wadati	 Abstract: We investigate dynamical properties of bright solitons with a finite background in the F=1 spinor Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC), based on an integrable spinor model which is equivalent to the matrix nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger equation with a self-focusing nonlineality. We apply the inverse scattering method formulated for nonvanishing boundary conditions. The resulting soliton solutions can be regarded as a generalization of those under vanishing boundary conditions. One-soliton solutions are derived in an explicit manner. According to the behaviors at the infinity, they are classified into two kinds, domain-wall (DW) type and phase-shift (PS) type. The DW-type implies the ferromagnetic state with nonzero total spin and the PS-type implies the polar state, where the total spin amounts to zero. We also discuss two-soliton collisions. In particular, the spin-mixing phenomenon is confirmed in a collision involving the DW-type. The results are consistent with those of the previous studies for bright solitons under vanishing boundary conditions and dark solitons. As a result, we establish the robustness and the usefulness of the multiple matter-wave solitons in the spinor BECs. 
0704.00083	Why there is something rather than nothing (out of everything)?	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:A.O.Barvinsky	 Abstract: The path integral over Euclidean geometries for the recently suggested density matrix of the Universe is shown to describe a microcanonical ensemble in quantum cosmology. This ensemble corresponds to a uniform (weight one) distribution in phase space of true physical variables, but in terms of the observable spacetime geometry it is peaked about complex saddle-points of the {\em Lorentzian} path integral. They are represented by the recently obtained cosmological instantons limited to a bounded range of the cosmological constant. Inflationary cosmologies generated by these instantons at late stages of expansion undergo acceleration whose low-energy scale can be attained within the concept of dynamically evolving extra dimensions. Thus, together with the bounded range of the early cosmological constant, this cosmological ensemble suggests the mechanism of constraining the landscape of string vacua and, simultaneously, a possible solution to the dark energy problem in the form of the quasi-equilibrium decay of the microcanonical state of the Universe. 
0704.00084	Formation of density singularities in ideal hydrodynamics of freely  cooling inelastic gases: a family of exact solutions	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Itzhak Fouxon, Baruch Meerson, Michael Assaf, Eli Livne	 Abstract: We employ granular hydrodynamics to investigate a paradigmatic problem of clustering of particles in a freely cooling dilute granular gas. We consider large-scale hydrodynamic motions where the viscosity and heat conduction can be neglected, and one arrives at the equations of ideal gas dynamics with an additional term describing bulk energy losses due to inelastic collisions. We employ Lagrangian coordinates and derive a broad family of exact non-stationary analytical solutions that depend only on one spatial coordinate. These solutions exhibit a new type of singularity, where the gas density blows up in a finite time when starting from smooth initial conditions. The density blowups signal formation of close-packed clusters of particles. As the density blow-up time $t_c$ is approached, the maximum density exhibits a power law $\sim (t_c-t)^{-2}$. The velocity gradient blows up as $\sim - (t_c-t)^{-1}$ while the velocity itself remains continuous and develops a cusp (rather than a shock discontinuity) at the singularity. The gas temperature vanishes at the singularity, and the singularity follows the isobaric scenario: the gas pressure remains finite and approximately uniform in space and constant in time close to the singularity. An additional exact solution shows that the density blowup, of the same type, may coexist with an "ordinary" shock, at which the hydrodynamic fields are discontinuous but finite. We confirm stability of the exact solutions with respect to small one-dimensional perturbations by solving the ideal hydrodynamic equations numerically. Furthermore, numerical solutions show that the local features of the density blowup hold universally, independently of details of the initial and boundary conditions. 
0704.00085	A Universality in PP-Waves	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Partha Mukhopadhyay	 Abstract: We discuss a universality property of any covariant field theory in space-time expanded around pp-wave backgrounds. According to this property the space-time lagrangian density evaluated on a restricted set of field configurations, called universal sector, turns out to be same around all the pp-waves, even off-shell, with same transverse space and same profiles for the background scalars. In this paper we restrict our discussion to tensorial fields only. In the context of bosonic string theory we consider on-shell pp-waves and argue that universality requires the existence of a universal sector of world-sheet operators whose correlation functions are insensitive to the pp-wave nature of the metric and the background gauge flux. Such results can also be reproduced using the world-sheet conformal field theory. We also study such pp-waves in non-polynomial closed string field theory (CSFT). In particular, we argue that for an off-shell pp-wave ansatz with flat transverse space and dilaton independent of transverse coordinates the field redefinition relating the low energy effective field theory and CSFT with all the massive modes integrated out is at most quadratic in fields. Because of this simplification it is expected that the off-shell pp-waves can be identified on the two sides. Furthermore, given the massless pp-wave field configurations, an iterative method for computing the higher massive modes using the CSFT equations of motion has been discussed. All our bosonic string theory analyses can be generalised to the common Neveu-Schwarz sector of superstrings. 
0704.00086	Clustering in a stochastic model of one-dimensional gas	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Vladislav V. Vysotsky	 Abstract: We give a quantitative analysis of clustering in a stochastic model of one-dimensional gas. At time zero, the gas consists of $n$ identical particles that are randomly distributed on the real line and have zero initial speeds. Particles begin to move under the forces of mutual attraction. When particles collide, they stick together forming a new particle, called cluster, whose mass and speed are defined by the laws of conservation. We are interested in the asymptotic behavior of $K_n(t)$ as $n\to \infty$, where $K_n(t)$ denotes the number of clusters at time $t$ in the system with $n$ initial particles. Our main result is a functional limit theorem for $K_n(t)$. Its proof is based on the discovered localization property of the aggregation process, which states that the behavior of each particle is essentially defined by the motion of neighbor particles. 
0704.00087	Approximate solutions to the Dirichlet problem for harmonic maps between  hyperbolic spaces	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Duong Minh Duc, Truong Trung Tuyen	 Abstract: Our main result in this paper is the following: Given $H^m, H^n$ hyperbolic spaces of dimensional $m$ and $n$ corresponding, and given a Holder function $f=(s^1,...,f^{n-1}):\partial H^m\to \partial H^n$ between geometric boundaries of $H^m$ and $H^n$. Then for each $\epsilon >0$ there exists a harmonic map $u:H^m\to H^n$ which is continuous up to the boundary (in the sense of Euclidean) and $u|_{\partial H^m}=(f^1,...,f^{n-1},\epsilon)$. 
0704.00088	Some new experimental photonic flame effect features	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:N.V.Tcherniega	 Abstract: The results of the spectral, energetical and temporal characteristics of radiation in the presence of the photonic flame effect are presented. Artificial opal posed on Cu plate at the temperature of liquid nitrogen boiling point (77 K) being irradiated by nanosecond ruby laser pulse produces long- term luminiscence with a duration till ten seconds with a finely structured spectrum in the the antistocks part of the spectrum. Analogous visible luminescence manifesting time delay appeared in other samples of the artificial opals posed on the same plate. In the case of the opal infiltrated with different nonlinear liquids the threshold of the luminiscence is reduced and the spatial disribution of the bright emmiting area on the opal surface is being changed. In the case of the putting the frozen nonlinear liquids on the Cu plate long-term blue bright luminiscence took place in the frozen species of the liquids. Temporal characteristics of this luminiscence are nearly the same as in opal matrixes. 
0704.00089	A general approach to statistical modeling of physical laws:  nonparametric regression	Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)	Authors:I. Grabec	 Abstract: Statistical modeling of experimental physical laws is based on the probability density function of measured variables. It is expressed by experimental data via a kernel estimator. The kernel is determined objectively by the scattering of data during calibration of experimental setup. A physical law, which relates measured variables, is optimally extracted from experimental data by the conditional average estimator. It is derived directly from the kernel estimator and corresponds to a general nonparametric regression. The proposed method is demonstrated by the modeling of a return map of noisy chaotic data. In this example, the nonparametric regression is used to predict a future value of chaotic time series from the present one. The mean predictor error is used in the definition of predictor quality, while the redundancy is expressed by the mean square distance between data points. Both statistics are used in a new definition of predictor cost function. From the minimum of the predictor cost function, a proper number of data in the model is estimated. 
0704.00090	Real Options for Project Schedules (ROPS)	Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE)	Authors:Lester Ingber	 Abstract: Real Options for Project Schedules (ROPS) has three recursive sampling/optimization shells. An outer Adaptive Simulated Annealing (ASA) optimization shell optimizes parameters of strategic Plans containing multiple Projects containing ordered Tasks. A middle shell samples probability distributions of durations of Tasks. An inner shell samples probability distributions of costs of Tasks. PATHTREE is used to develop options on schedules.. Algorithms used for Trading in Risk Dimensions (TRD) are applied to develop a relative risk analysis among projects. 
0704.00091	Groups with finitely many conjugacy classes and their automorphisms	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:Ashot Minasyan	 Abstract: We combine classical methods of combinatorial group theory with the theory of small cancellations over relatively hyperbolic groups to construct finitely generated torsion-free groups that have only finitely many classes of conjugate elements. Moreover, we present several results concerning embeddings into such groups. As another application of these techniques, we prove that every countable group $C$ can be realized as a group of outer automorphisms of a group $N$, where $N$ is a finitely generated group having Kazhdan's property (T) and containing exactly two conjugacy classes. 
0704.00092	Energy density for chiral lattice fermions with chemical potential	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:Christof Gattringer, Ludovit Liptak	 Abstract: We study a recently proposed formulation of overlap fermions at finite density. In particular we compute the energy density as a function of the chemical potential and the temperature. It is shown that overlap fermions with chemical potential reproduce the correct continuum behavior. 
0704.00093	Aspects of Electron-Phonon Self-Energy Revealed from Angle-Resolved  Photoemission Spectroscopy	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:W.S. Lee, S. Johnston, T.P. Devereaux, Z.-X. Shen	 Abstract: Lattice contribution to the electronic self-energy in complex correlated oxides is a fascinating subject that has lately stimulated lively discussions. Expectations of electron-phonon self-energy effects for simpler materials, such as Pd and Al, have resulted in several misconceptions in strongly correlated oxides. Here we analyze a number of arguments claiming that phonons cannot be the origin of certain self-energy effects seen in high-$T_c$ cuprate superconductors via angle resolved photoemission experiments (ARPES), including the temperature dependence, doping dependence of the renormalization effects, the inter-band scattering in the bilayer systems, and impurity substitution. We show that in light of experimental evidences and detailed simulations, these arguments are not well founded. 
0704.00094	Timing and Lensing of the Colliding Bullet Clusters: barely enough time  and gravity to accelerate the bullet	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:HongSheng Zhao (SUPA, St Andrews)	 Abstract: We present semi-analytical constraint on the amount of dark matter in the merging bullet galaxy cluster using the classical Local Group timing arguments. We consider particle orbits in potential models which fit the lensing data. {\it Marginally consistent} CDM models in Newtonian gravity are found with a total mass M_{CDM} = 1 x 10^{15}Msun of Cold DM: the bullet subhalo can move with V_{DM}=3000km/s, and the "bullet" X-ray gas can move with V_{gas}=4200km/s. These are nearly the {\it maximum speeds} that are accelerable by the gravity of two truncated CDM halos in a Hubble time even without the ram pressure. Consistency breaks down if one adopts higher end of the error bars for the bullet gas speed (5000-5400km/s), and the bullet gas would not be bound by the sub-cluster halo for the Hubble time. Models with V_{DM}~ 4500km/s ~ V_{gas} would invoke unrealistic large amount M_{CDM}=7x 10^{15}Msun of CDM for a cluster containing only ~ 10^{14}Msun of gas. Our results are generalisable beyond General Relativity, e.g., a speed of $4500\kms$ is easily obtained in the relativistic MONDian lensing model of Angus et al. (2007). However, MONDian model with little hot dark matter $M_{HDM} \le 0.6\times 10^{15}\msun$ and CDM model with a small halo mass $\le 1\times 10^{15}\msun$ are barely consistent with lensing and velocity data. 
0704.00095	Geometry of Locally Compact Groups of Polynomial Growth and Shape of  Large Balls	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:Emmanuel Breuillard	 Abstract: We get asymptotics for the volume of large balls in an arbitrary locally compact group G with polynomial growth. This is done via a study of the geometry of G and a generalization of P. Pansu's thesis. In particular, we show that any such G is weakly commensurable to some simply connected solvable Lie group S, the Lie shadow of G. We also show that large balls in G have an asymptotic shape, i.e. after a suitable renormalization, they converge to a limiting compact set which can be interpreted geometrically. We then discuss the speed of convergence, treat some examples and give an application to ergodic theory. We also answer a question of Burago about left invariant metrics and recover some results of Stoll on the irrationality of growth series of nilpotent groups. 
0704.00096	Much ado about 248	Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)	Authors:M.C. Nucci, P.G.L. Leach	 Abstract: In this note we present three representations of a 248-dimensional Lie algebra, namely the algebra of Lie point symmetries admitted by a system of five trivial ordinary differential equations each of order forty-four, that admitted by a system of seven trivial ordinary differential equations each of order twenty-eight and that admitted by one trivial ordinary differential equation of order two hundred and forty-four. 
0704.00097	Conformal Field Theory and Operator Algebras	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Yasuyuki Kawahigashi	 Abstract: We review recent progress in operator algebraic approach to conformal quantum field theory. Our emphasis is on use of representation theory in classification theory. This is based on a series of joint works with R. Longo. 
0704.00098	Sparsely-spread CDMA - a statistical mechanics based analysis	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Jack Raymond, David Saad	 Abstract: Sparse Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), a variation on the standard CDMA method in which the spreading (signature) matrix contains only a relatively small number of non-zero elements, is presented and analysed using methods of statistical physics. The analysis provides results on the performance of maximum likelihood decoding for sparse spreading codes in the large system limit. We present results for both cases of regular and irregular spreading matrices for the binary additive white Gaussian noise channel (BIAWGN) with a comparison to the canonical (dense) random spreading code. 
0704.00099	On Ando's inequalities for convex and concave functions	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Koenraad M.R. Audenaert, Jaspal Singh Aujla	 Abstract: For positive semidefinite matrices $A$ and $B$, Ando and Zhan proved the inequalities $||| f(A)+f(B) ||| \ge ||| f(A+B) |||$ and $||| g(A)+g(B) ||| \le ||| g(A+B) |||$, for any unitarily invariant norm, and for any non-negative operator monotone $f$ on $[0,\infty)$ with inverse function $g$. These inequalities have very recently been generalised to non-negative concave functions $f$ and non-negative convex functions $g$, by Bourin and Uchiyama, and Kosem, respectively. In this paper we consider the related question whether the inequalities $||| f(A)-f(B) ||| \le ||| f(|A-B|) |||$, and $||| g(A)-g(B) ||| \ge ||| g(|A-B|) |||$, obtained by Ando, for operator monotone $f$ with inverse $g$, also have a similar generalisation to non-negative concave $f$ and convex $g$. We answer exactly this question, in the negative for general matrices, and affirmatively in the special case when $A\ge ||B||$. In the course of this work, we introduce the novel notion of $Y$-dominated majorisation between the spectra of two Hermitian matrices, where $Y$ is itself a Hermitian matrix, and prove a certain property of this relation that allows to strengthen the results of Bourin-Uchiyama and Kosem, mentioned above. 
0704.00100	Topology Change of Black Holes	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Daisuke Ida, Masaru Siino	 Abstract: The topological structure of the event horizon has been investigated in terms of the Morse theory. The elementary process of topological evolution can be understood as a handle attachment. It has been found that there are certain constraints on the nature of black hole topological evolution: (i) There are n kinds of handle attachments in (n+1)-dimensional black hole space-times. (ii) Handles are further classified as either of black or white type, and only black handles appear in real black hole space-times. (iii) The spatial section of an exterior of the black hole region is always connected. As a corollary, it is shown that the formation of a black hole with an S**(n-2) x S**1 horizon from that with an S**(n-1) horizon must be non-axisymmetric in asymptotically flat space-times. 
0704.00101	The birth of string theory	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Paolo Di Vecchia	 Abstract: In this contribution we go through the developments that in the years 1968 to 1974 led from the Veneziano model to the bosonic string. 
0704.00102	Duality and Tameness	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:Marc Chardin, Steven Dale Cutkosky, Juergen Herzog, Hema Srinivasan	 Abstract: We prove a duality theorem for certain graded algebras and show by various examples different kinds of failure of tameness of local cohomology. 
0704.00103	Generalized regularly discontinuous solutions of the Einstein equations	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Gianluca Gemelli	 Abstract: The physical consistency of the match of piecewise-$C^0$ metrics is discussed. The mathematical theory of gravitational discontinuity hypersurfaces is generalized to cover the match of regularly discontinuous metrics. The mean-value differential geometry framework on a hypersurface is introduced, and corresponding compatibility conditions are deduced. Examples of generalized boundary layers, gravitational shock waves and thin shells are studied. 
0704.00104	A geometric realization of sl(6,C)	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Giovanni Gaiffi, Michele Grassi	 Abstract: Given an orientable weakly self-dual manifold X of rank two, we build a geometric realization of the Lie algebra sl(6,C) as a naturally defined algebra L of endomorphisms of the space of differential forms of X. We provide an explicit description of Serre generators in terms of natural generators of L. This construction gives a bundle on X which is related to the search for a natural Gauge theory on X. We consider this paper as a first step in the study of a rich and interesting algebraic structure. 
0704.00105	Rigid subsets of symplectic manifolds	Symplectic Geometry (math.SG)	Authors:Michael Entov, Leonid Polterovich	 Abstract: We show that there is an hierarchy of intersection rigidity properties of sets in a closed symplectic manifold: some sets cannot be displaced by symplectomorphisms from more sets than the others. We also find new examples of rigidity of intersections involving, in particular, specific fibers of moment maps of Hamiltonian torus actions, monotone Lagrangian submanifolds (following the works of P.Albers and P.Biran-O.Cornea), as well as certain, possibly singular, sets defined in terms of Poisson-commutative subalgebras of smooth functions. In addition, we get some geometric obstructions to semi-simplicity of the quantum homology of symplectic manifolds. The proofs are based on the Floer-theoretical machinery of partial symplectic quasi-states. 
0704.00106	Multiple Parton Scattering in Nuclei: Quark-quark Scattering	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Andreas Schafer, Xin-Nian Wang, Ben-Wei Zhang	 Abstract: Modifications to quark and antiquark fragmentation functions due to quark-quark (antiquark) double scattering in nuclear medium are studied systematically up to order \cal{O}(\alpha_{s}^2)$ in deeply inelastic scattering (DIS) off nuclear targets. At the order $\cal{O}(\alpha_s^2)$, twist-four contributions from quark-quark (antiquark) rescattering also exhibit the Landau-Pomeranchuck-Midgal (LPM) interference feature similar to gluon bremsstrahlung induced by multiple parton scattering. Compared to quark-gluon scattering, the modification, which is dominated by $t$-channel quark-quark (antiquark) scattering, is only smaller by a factor of $C_F/C_A=4/9$ times the ratio of quark and gluon distributions in the medium. Such a modification is not negligible for realistic kinematics and finite medium size. The modifications to quark (antiquark) fragmentation functions from quark-antiquark annihilation processes are shown to be determined by the antiquark (quark) distribution density in the medium. The asymmetry in quark and antiquark distributions in nuclei will lead to different modifications of quark and antiquark fragmentation functions inside a nucleus, which qualitatively explains the experimentally observed flavor dependence of the leading hadron suppression in semi-inclusive DIS off nuclear targets. The quark-antiquark annihilation processes also mix quark and gluon fragmentation functions in the large fractional momentum region, leading to a flavor dependence of jet quenching in heavy-ion collisions. 
0704.00107	Experimental modeling of physical laws	Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)	Authors:I. Grabec	 Abstract: A physical law is represented by the probability distribution of a measured variable. The probability density is described by measured data using an estimator whose kernel is the instrument scattering function. The experimental information and data redundancy are defined in terms of information entropy. The model cost function, comprised of data redundancy and estimation error, is minimized by the creation-annihilation process. 
0704.00108	Reducing SAT to 2-SAT	Computational Complexity (cs.CC)	Authors:Sergey Gubin	 Abstract: Description of a polynomial time reduction of SAT to 2-SAT of polynomial size. 
0704.00109	Half-metallic silicon nanowires	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Engin Durgun, Deniz Cakir, Nurten Akman, Salim Ciraci	 Abstract: From first-principles calculations, we predict that transition metal (TM) atom doped silicon nanowires have a half-metallic ground state. They are insulators for one spin-direction, but show metallic properties for the opposite spin direction. At high coverage of TM atoms, ferromagnetic silicon nanowires become metallic for both spin-directions with high magnetic moment and may have also significant spin-polarization at the Fermi level. The spin-dependent electronic properties can be engineered by changing the type of dopant TM atoms, as well as the diameter of the nanowire. Present results are not only of scientific interest, but can also initiate new research on spintronic applications of silicon nanowires. 
0704.00110	On Equivariant Embedding of Hilbert C^* modules	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Debashish Goswami	 Abstract: We prove that an arbitrary (not necessarily countably generated) Hilbert $G$-$\cla$ module on a G-C^* algebra $\cla$ admits an equivariant embedding into a trivial $G-\cla$ module, provided G is a compact Lie group and its action on $\cla$ is ergodic. 
0704.00111	Invariance and the twisted Chern character : a case study	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Debashish Goswami	 Abstract: We give details of the proof of the remark made in \cite{G2} that the Chern characters of the canonical generators on the K homology of the quantum group $SU_q(2)$ are not invariant under the natural $SU_q(2)$ coaction. Furthermore, the conjecture made in \cite{G2} about the nontriviality of the twisted Chern character coming from an odd equivariant spectral triple on $SU_q(2)$ is settled in the affirmative. 
0704.00112	Placeholder Substructures III: A Bit-String-Driven ''Recipe Theory'' for  Infinite-Dimensional Zero-Divisor Spaces	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Robert P. C. de Marrais	 Abstract: Zero-divisors (ZDs) derived by Cayley-Dickson Process (CDP) from N-dimensional hypercomplex numbers (N a power of 2, at least 4) can represent singularities and, as N approaches infinite, fractals -- and thereby,scale-free networks. Any integer greater than 8 and not a power of 2 generates a meta-fractal or "Sky" when it is interpreted as the "strut constant" (S) of an ensemble of octahedral vertex figures called "Box-Kites" (the fundamental building blocks of ZDs). Remarkably simple bit-manipulation rules or "recipes" provide tools for transforming one fractal genus into others within the context of Wolfram's Class 4 complexity. 
0704.00113	Langmuir blodgett assembly of densely aligned single walled carbon  nanotubes from bulk materials	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Xiaolin Li, Li Zhang, Xinran Wang, Iwao Shimoyama, Xiaoming Sun, Won-Seok Seo, Hongjie Dai (Department of Chemistry, Stanford University.)	 Abstract: Single walled carbon nanotubes exhibit advanced electrical and surface properties useful for high performance nanoelectronics. Important to future manufacturing of nanotube circuits is large scale assembly of SWNTs into aligned forms. Despite progress in assembly and oriented synthesis, pristine SWNTs in aligned and close-packed form remain elusive and needed for high current, speed and density devices through collective operations of parallel SWNTs. Here, we develop a Langmuir Blodgett method achieving monolayers of aligned SWNTs with dense packing, central to which is a non covalent polymer functionalization by PmPV imparting high solubility and stability of SWNTs in an organic solvent DCE. Pressure cycling or annealing during LB film compression reduces hysteresis and facilitates high degree alignment and packing of SWNTs characterized by microscopy and polarized Raman spectroscopy. The monolayer SWNTs are readily patterned for device integration by microfabrication, enabling the highest currents 3mA through the narrowest regions packed with aligned SWNTs thus far. 
0704.00114	Quantum Phase Transition in the Four-Spin Exchange Antiferromagnet	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Valeri N. Kotov, Dao-Xin Yao, A. H. Castro Neto, D. K. Campbell	 Abstract: We study the S=1/2 Heisenberg antiferromagnet on a square lattice with nearest-neighbor and plaquette four-spin exchanges (introduced by A.W. Sandvik, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 98}, 227202 (2007).) This model undergoes a quantum phase transition from a spontaneously dimerized phase to N\'eel order at a critical coupling. We show that as the critical point is approached from the dimerized side, the system exhibits strong fluctuations in the dimer background, reflected in the presence of a low-energy singlet mode, with a simultaneous rise in the triplet quasiparticle density. We find that both singlet and triplet modes of high density condense at the transition, signaling restoration of lattice symmetry. In our approach, which goes beyond mean-field theory in terms of the triplet excitations, the transition appears sharp; however since our method breaks down near the critical point, we argue that we cannot make a definite conclusion regarding the order of the transition. 
0704.00115	Smooth maps with singularities of bounded K-codimensions	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Yoshifumi Ando	 Abstract: We will prove the relative homotopy principle for smooth maps with singularities of a given {\cal K}-invariant class with a mild condition. We next study a filtration of the group of homotopy self-equivalences of a given manifold P by considering singularities of non-negative {\cal K}-codimensions. 
0704.00116	Stringy Jacobi fields in Morse theory	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Yong Seung Cho, Soon-Tae Hong	 Abstract: We consider the variation of the surface spanned by closed strings in a spacetime manifold. Using the Nambu-Goto string action, we induce the geodesic surface equation, the geodesic surface deviation equation which yields a Jacobi field, and we define the index form of a geodesic surface as in the case of point particles to discuss conjugate strings on the geodesic surface. 
0704.00117	Lower ground state due to counter-rotating wave interaction in trapped  ion system	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:T. Liu, K.L. Wang, M. Feng	 Abstract: We consider a single ion confined in a trap under radiation of two traveling waves of lasers. In the strong-excitation regime and without the restriction of Lamb-Dicke limit, the Hamiltonian of the system is similar to a driving Jaynes-Cummings model without rotating wave approximation (RWA). The approach we developed enables us to present a complete eigensolutions, which makes it available to compare with the solutions under the RWA. We find that, the ground state in our non-RWA solution is energically lower than the counterpart under the RWA. If we have the ion in the ground state, it is equivalent to a spin dependent force on the trapped ion. Discussion is made for the difference between the solutions with and without the RWA, and for the relevant experimental test, as well as for the possible application in quantum information processing. 
0704.00118	Strained single-crystal Al2O3 grown layer-by-layer on Nb (110) thin  films	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Paul B. Welander, James N. Eckstein	 Abstract: We report on the layer-by-layer growth of single-crystal Al2O3 thin-films on Nb (110). Single-crystal Nb films are first prepared on A-plane sapphire, followed by the evaporation of Al in an O2 background. The first stages of Al2O3 growth are layer-by-layer with hexagonal symmetry. Electron and x-ray diffraction measurements indicate the Al2O3 initially grows clamped to the Nb lattice with a tensile strain near 10%. This strain relaxes with further deposition, and beyond about 5 nm we observe the onset of island growth. Despite the asymmetric misfit between the Al2O3 film and the Nb under-layer, the observed strain is surprisingly isotropic. 
0704.00119	Quasi-quartet crystal electric field ground state in a tetragonal  CeAg$_2$Ge$_2$ single crystal	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:A. Thamizhavel, R. Kulkarni, S. K. Dhar	 Abstract: We have successfully grown the single crystals of CeAg$_2$Ge$_2$, for the first time, by flux method and studied the anisotropic physical properties by measuring the electrical resistivity, magnetic susceptibility and specific heat. We found that CeAg$_2$Ge$_2$ undergoes an antiferromagnetic transition at $T_{\rm N}$ = 4.6 K. The electrical resistivity and susceptibility data reveal strong anisotropic magnetic properties. The magnetization measured at $T$ = 2 K exhibited two metamagnetic transitions at $H_{\rm m1}$ = 31 kOe and $H_{\rm m2}$ = 44.7 kOe, for $H \parallel$ [100] with a saturation magnetization of 1.6 $\mu_{\rm B}$/Ce. The crystalline electric field (CEF) analysis of the inverse susceptibility data reveals that the ground state and the first excited states of CeAg$_2$Ge$_2$ are closely spaced indicating a quasi-quartet ground state. The specific heat data lend further support to the presence of closely spaced energy levels. 
0704.00120	Strong Phase and $D^0-D^0bar$ mixing at BES-III	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:Xiao-Dong Cheng, Kang-Lin He, Hai-Bo Li, Yi-Fang Wang, Mao-Zhi Yang	 Abstract: Most recently, both BaBar and Belle experiments found evidences of neutral $D$ mixing. In this paper, we discuss the constraints on the strong phase difference in $D^0 \to K\pi$ decay from the measurements of the mixing parameters, $y^\prime$, $y_{CP}$ and $x$ at the $B$ factories. The sensitivity of the measurement of the mixing parameter $y$ is estimated in BES-III experiment at $\psi(3770)$ peak. We also make an estimate on the measurements of the mixing rate $R_M$. Finally, the sensitivity of the strong phase difference at BES-III are obtained by using data near the $D\bar{D}$ threshold with CP tag technique at BES-III experiment. 
0704.00121	Meta-Stable Brane Configuration of Product Gauge Groups	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Changhyun Ahn	 Abstract: Starting from the N=1 SU(N_c) x SU(N_c') gauge theory with fundamental and bifundamental flavors, we apply the Seiberg dual to the first gauge group and obtain the N=1 dual gauge theory with dual matters including the gauge singlets. By analyzing the F-term equations of the superpotential, we describe the intersecting type IIA brane configuration for the meta-stable nonsupersymmetric vacua of this gauge theory. By introducing an orientifold 6-plane, we generalize to the case for N=1 SU(N_c) x SO(N_c') gauge theory with fundamental and bifundamental flavors. Finally, the N=1 SU(N_c) x Sp(N_c') gauge theory with matters is also described very briefly. 
0704.00122	Spinor dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates; Classical spin approach	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:M. Takahashi, Sankalpa Ghosh, T. Mizushima, K. Machida	 Abstract: Magnetic dipole-dipole interaction dominated Bose-Einstein condensates are discussed under spinful situations. We treat the spin degrees of freedom as a classical spin vector, approaching from large spin limit to obtain an effective minimal Hamiltonian; a version extended from a non-linear sigma model. By solving the Gross-Pitaevskii equation we find several novel spin textures where the mass density and spin density are strongly coupled, depending upon trap geometries due to the long-range and anisotropic natures of the dipole-dipole interaction. 
0704.00123	Nonlinear Dynamics of the Phonon Stimulated Emission in Microwave  Solid-State Resonator of the Nonautonomous Phaser Generator	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:D. N. Makovetskii	 Abstract: The microwave phonon stimulated emission (SE) has been experimentally and numerically investigated in a nonautonomous microwave acoustic quantum generator, called also microwave phonon laser or phaser (see previous works arXiv:cond-mat/0303188 ; arXiv:cond-mat/0402640 ; arXiv:nlin.CG/0703050) Phenomena of branching and long-time refractority (absence of the reaction on the external pulses) for deterministic chaotic and regular processes of SE were observed in experiments with various levels of electromagnetic pumping. At the pumping level growth, the clearly depined increasing of the number of coexisting SE states has been observed both in real physical experiments and in computer simulations. This confirms the analytical estimations of the branching density in the phase space. The nature of the refractority of SE pulses is closely connected with the pointed branching and reflects the crises of strange attractors, i.e. their collisions with unstable periodic components of the higher branches of SE states in the nonautonomous microwave phonon laser. 
0704.00124	Proper J-holomorphic discs in Stein domains of dimension 2	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Bernard Coupet, Alexandre Sukhov, Alexander Tumanov	 Abstract: We prove the existence of global Bishop discs in a strictly pseudoconvex Stein domain in an almost complex manifold of complex dimension 2. 
0704.00125	Anisotropic thermo-elasticity in 2D -- Part I: A unified approach	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Michael Reissig, Jens Wirth	 Abstract: In this note we develop tools and techniques for the treatment of anisotropic thermo-elasticity in two space dimensions. We use a diagonalisation technique to obtain properties of the characteristic roots of the full symbol of the system in order to prove $L^p$--$L^q$ decay rates for its solutions. 
0704.00126	I-V characteristics of the vortex state in MgB2 thin films	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Huan Yang, Ying Jia, Lei Shan, Yingzi Zhang, Hai-Hu Wen, Chenggang Zhuang, Zikui Liu, Qi Li, Yi Cui, Xiaoxing Xi	 Abstract: The current-voltage (I-V) characteristics of various MgB2 films have been studied at different magnetic fields parallel to c-axis. At fields \mu0H between 0 and 5T, vortex liquid-glass transitions were found in the I-V isotherms. Consistently, the I-V curves measured at different temperatures show a scaling behavior in the framework of quasi-two-dimension (quasi-2D) vortex glass theory. However, at \mu0 H >= 5T, a finite dissipation was observed down to the lowest temperature here, T=1.7K, and the I-V isotherms did not scale in terms of any known scaling law, of any dimensionality. We suggest that this may be caused by a mixture of \sigma band vortices and \pi band quasiparticles. Interestingly, the I-V curves at zero magnetic field can still be scaled according to the quasi-2D vortex glass formalism, indicating an equivalent effect of self-field due to persistent current and applied magnetic field. 
0704.00127	Magnetic Fingerprints of sub-100 nm Fe Nanodots	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Randy K. Dumas, Chang-Peng Li, Igor V. Roshchin, Ivan K. Schuller, Kai Liu	 Abstract: Sub-100 nm nanomagnets not only are technologically important, but also exhibit complex magnetization reversal behaviors as their dimensions are comparable to typical magnetic domain wall widths. Here we capture magnetic "fingerprints" of 1 billion Fe nanodots as they undergo a single domain to vortex state transition, using a first-order reversal curve (FORC) method. As the nanodot size increases from 52 nm to 67 nm, the FORC diagrams reveal striking differences, despite only subtle changes in their major hysteresis loops. The 52 nm nanodots exhibit single domain behavior and the coercivity distribution extracted from the FORC distribution agrees well with a calculation based on the measured nanodot size distribution. The 58 and 67 nm nanodots exhibit vortex states, where the nucleation and annihilation of the vortices are manifested as butterfly-like features in the FORC distribution and confirmed by micromagnetic simulations. Furthermore, the FORC method gives quantitative measures of the magnetic phase fractions, and vortex nucleation and annihilation fields. 
0704.00128	An online repository of Swift/XRT light curves of GRBs	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P.A. Evans (1), A.P. Beardmore (1), K.L. Page (1), L.G. Tyler (1), J.P. Osborne (1), M.R. Goad (1), P.T. O'Brien (1), L. Vetere (2), J. Racusin (2), D. Morris (2), D.N. Burrows (2), M. Capalbi (3), M. Perri (3), N. Gehrels (4), P. Romano (5,6) ((1) University of Leicester, (2) Pennsylvania State University, (3) ASI Science Data Center, (4) NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center, (5) INAF-Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera, (6) Universita' degli Studi di Milano)	 Abstract: Context. Swift data are revolutionising our understanding of Gamma Ray Bursts. Since bursts fade rapidly, it is desirable to create and disseminate accurate light curves rapidly. Aims. To provide the community with an online repository of X-ray light curves obtained with Swift. The light curves should be of the quality expected of published data, but automatically created and updated so as to be self-consistent and rapidly available. Methods. We have produced a suite of programs which automatically generates Swift/XRT light curves of GRBs. Effects of the damage to the CCD, automatic readout-mode switching and pile-up are appropriately handled, and the data are binned with variable bin durations, as necessary for a fading source. Results. The light curve repository website (this http URL) contains light curves, hardness ratios and deep images for every GRB which Swift's XRT has observed. When new GRBs are detected, light curves are created and updated within minutes of the data arriving at the UK Swift Science Data Centre. 
0704.00129	On the total disconnectedness of the quotient Aubry set	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Alfonso Sorrentino	 Abstract: In this paper we show that the quotient Aubry set associated to certain Lagrangians is totally disconnected (i.e., every connected component consists of a single point). Moreover, we discuss the relation between this problem and a Morse-Sard type property for (difference of) critical subsolutions of Hamilton-Jacobi equations. 
0704.00130	New simple modular Lie superalgebras as generalized prolongs	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Sofiane Bouarroudj, Pavel Grozman, Dimitry Leites	 Abstract: Over algebraically closed fields of characteristic p>2, prolongations of the simple finite dimensional Lie algebras and Lie superalgebras with Cartan matrix are studied for certain simplest gradings of these algebras. Several new simple Lie superalgebras are discovered, serial and exceptional, including superBrown and superMelikyan superalgebras. Simple Lie superalgebras with Cartan matrix of rank 2 are classified. 
0704.00131	Vacuum Structure and Potential	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:J.X. Zheng-Johansson	 Abstract: Based on overall experimental observations, especially the pair processes, I developed a model structure of the vacuum along with a basic-particle formation scheme begun in 2000 (with collaborator P-I Johansson). The model consists in that the vacuum is, briefly, filled of neutral but polarizable vacuuons, consisting each of a p-vaculeon and n- vaculeon of charges $+e$ and $-e$ of zero rest masses but with spin motions, assumed interacting each other with a Coulomb force. The model has been introduced in full in a book (Nova Sci, 2005) and referred to in a number of journal/E-print papers. I outline in this easier accessible paper the detailed derivation of the model and a corresponding quantitative determination of the vacuuon size. 
0704.00132	Counterflow of electrons in two isolated quantum point contacts	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:V.S. Khrapai, S. Ludwig, J.P. Kotthaus, H.P. Tranitz, W. Wegscheider	 Abstract: We study the interaction between two adjacent but electrically isolated quantum point contacts (QPCs). At high enough source-drain bias on one QPC, the drive QPC, we detect a finite electric current in the second, unbiased, detector QPC. The current generated at the detector QPC always flows in the opposite direction than the current of the drive QPC. The generated current is maximal, if the detector QPC is tuned to a transition region between its quantized conductance plateaus and the drive QPC is almost pinched-off. We interpret this counterflow phenomenon in terms of an asymmetric phonon-induced excitation of electrons in the leads of the detector QPC. 
0704.00133	PAH emission and star formation in the host of the z~2.56 Cloverleaf QSO	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D. Lutz, E. Sturm, L.J. Tacconi, E. Valiante, M. Schweitzer, H. Netzer, R. Maiolino, P. Andreani, O. Shemmer, S. Veilleux	 Abstract: We report the first detection of the 6.2micron and 7.7micron infrared `PAH' emission features in the spectrum of a high redshift QSO, from the Spitzer-IRS spectrum of the Cloverleaf lensed QSO (H1413+117, z~2.56). The ratio of PAH features and rest frame far-infrared emission is the same as in lower luminosity star forming ultraluminous infrared galaxies and in local PG QSOs, supporting a predominantly starburst nature of the Cloverleaf's huge far-infrared luminosity (5.4E12 Lsun, corrected for lensing). The Cloverleaf's period of dominant QSO activity (Lbol ~ 7E13 Lsun) is coincident with an intense (star formation rate ~1000 Msun/yr) and short (gas exhaustion time ~3E7yr) star forming event. 
0704.00134	Causal dissipative hydrodynamics for QGP fluid in 2+1 dimensions	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:A. K. Chaudhuri	 Abstract: In 2nd order causal dissipative theory, space-time evolution of QGP fluid is studied in 2+1 dimensions. Relaxation equations for shear stress tensors are solved simultaneously with the energy-momentum conservation equations. Comparison of evolution of ideal and viscous QGP fluid, initialized under the same conditions, e.g. same equilibration time, energy density and velocity profile, indicate that in a viscous dynamics, energy density or temperature of the fluid evolve slowly, than in an ideal fluid. Cooling gets slower as viscosity increases. Transverse expansion also increases in a viscous dynamics. For the first time we have also studied elliptic flow of 'quarks' in causal viscous dynamics. It is shown that elliptic flow of quarks saturates due to non-equilibrium correction to equilibrium distribution function, and can not be mimicked by an ideal hydrodynamics. 
0704.00135	A Single Trapped Ion as a Time-Dependent Harmonic Oscillator	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Nicolas C. Menicucci, G. J. Milburn	 Abstract: We show how a single trapped ion may be used to test a variety of important physical models realized as time-dependent harmonic oscillators. The ion itself functions as its own motional detector through laser-induced electronic transitions. Alsing et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 220401 (2005)] proposed that an exponentially decaying trap frequency could be used to simulate (thermal) Gibbons-Hawking radiation in an expanding universe, but the Hamiltonian used was incorrect. We apply our general solution to this experimental proposal, correcting the result for a single ion and showing that while the actual spectrum is different from the Gibbons-Hawking case, it nevertheless shares an important experimental signature with this result. 
0704.00136	Compounding Fields and Their Quantum Equations in the Trigintaduonion  Space	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Zihua Weng	 Abstract: The 32-dimensional compounding fields and their quantum interplays in the trigintaduonion space can be presented by analogy with octonion and sedenion electromagnetic, gravitational, strong and weak interactions. In the trigintaduonion fields which are associated with the electromagnetic, gravitational, strong and weak interactions, the study deduces some conclusions of field source particles (quarks and leptons) and intermediate particles which are consistent with current some sorts of interaction theories. In the trigintaduonion fields which are associated with the hyper-strong and strong-weak fields, the paper draws some predicts and conclusions of the field source particles (sub-quarks) and intermediate particles. The research results show that there may exist some new particles in the nature. 
0704.00137	Topological defects, geometric phases, and the angular momentum of light	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:S C Tiwari	 Abstract: Recent reports on the intriguing features of vector vortex bearing beams are analyzed using geometric phases in optics. It is argued that the spin redirection phase induced circular birefringence is the origin of topological phase singularities arising in the inhomogeneous polarization patterns. A unified picture of recent results is presented based on this proposition. Angular momentum shift within the light beam (OAM) has exact equivalence with the angular momentum holonomy associated with the geometric phase consistent with our conjecture. 
0704.00138	Circular and non-circular nearly horizon-skimming orbits in Kerr  spacetimes	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Enrico Barausse, Scott A. Hughes, Luciano Rezzolla	 Abstract: We have performed a detailed analysis of orbital motion in the vicinity of a nearly extremal Kerr black hole. For very rapidly rotating black holes (spin a=J/M>0.9524M) we have found a class of very strong field eccentric orbits whose angular momentum L_z increases with the orbit's inclination with respect to the equatorial plane, while keeping latus rectum and eccentricity fixed. This behavior is in contrast with Newtonian intuition, and is in fact opposite to the "normal" behavior of black hole orbits. Such behavior was noted previously for circular orbits; since it only applies to orbits very close to the black hole, they were named "nearly horizon-skimming orbits". Our analysis generalizes this result, mapping out the full generic (inclined and eccentric) family of nearly horizon-skimming orbits. The earlier work on circular orbits reported that, under gravitational radiation emission, nearly horizon-skimming orbits tend to evolve to smaller orbit inclination, toward prograde equatorial configuration. Normal orbits, by contrast, always demonstrate slowly growing orbit inclination (orbits evolve toward the retrograde equatorial configuration). Using up-to-date Teukolsky-fluxes, we have concluded that the earlier result was incorrect: all circular orbits, including nearly horizon-skimming ones, exhibit growing orbit inclination. Using kludge fluxes based on a Post-Newtonian expansion corrected with fits to circular and to equatorial Teukolsky-fluxes, we argue that the inclination grows also for eccentric nearly horizon-skimming orbits. We also find that the inclination change is, in any case, very small. As such, we conclude that these orbits are not likely to have a clear and peculiar imprint on the gravitational waveforms expected to be measured by the space-based detector LISA. 
0704.00139	The Blue Straggler Population of the Globular Cluster M5	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:B. Lanzoni (1,2), E. Dalessandro (1,2), F.R. Ferraro (1), C. Mancini (3), G. Beccari (2,4,5), R.T. Rood (6), M. Mapelli (7), S. Sigurdsson (8) (1 Dip. Astro., Bologna; 2 INAF--Oss. Astro., Bologna, 3 Dip. Astro. e Scienza dello Spazio, Firenze; 4 Dip. di Scienze della Comunicazione, Teramo; 5 INAF--Oss. Astro. di Collurania, Teramo; 6 Dep. of Astronomy and Astrophysics, The Pennsylvania State University; 7 S.I.S.S.A., Via Beirut 2 - 4, Trieste; 8 Astronomy Department, University of Virginia)	 Abstract: By combining high-resolution HST and wide-field ground based observations, in ultraviolet and optical bands, we study the Blue Stragglers Star (BSS) population of the galactic globular cluster M5 (NGC 5904) from its very central regions up to its periphery. The BSS distribution is highly peaked in the cluster center, decreases at intermediate radii and rises again outward. Such a bimodal distribution is similar to those previously observed in other globular clusters (M3, 47Tucanae, NGC6752). As for these clusters, dynamical simulations suggest that, while the majority of BSS in M5 could be originated by stellar collisions, a significant fraction (20-40%) of BSS generated by mass transfer processes in primordial binaries is required to reproduce the observed radial distribution. A candidate BSS has been detected beyond the cluster tidal radius. If confirmed, this could represent an interesting case of an "evaporating" BSS. 
0704.00140	Entanglement entropy of two-dimensional Anti-de Sitter black holes	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Mariano Cadoni	 Abstract: Using the AdS/CFT correspondence we derive a formula for the entanglement entropy of the anti-de Sitter black hole in two spacetime dimensions. The leading term in the large black hole mass expansion of our formula reproduces exactly the Bekenstein-Hawking entropy S_{BH}, whereas the subleading term behaves as ln S_{BH}. This subleading term has the universal form typical for the entanglement entropy of physical systems described by effective conformal fields theories (e.g. one-dimensional statistical models at the critical point). The well-known form of the entanglement entropy for a two-dimensional conformal field theory is obtained as analytic continuation of our result and is related with the entanglement entropy of a black hole with negative mass. 
0704.00141	Towards self-consistent definition of instanton liquid parameters	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:S.V. Molodtsov, G.M. Zinovjev	 Abstract: The possibility of self-consistent determination of instanton liquid parameters is discussed together with the definition of optimal pseudo-particle configurations and comparing the various pseudo-particle ensembles. The weakening of repulsive interactions between pseudo-particles is argued and estimated. 
0704.00142	Some aspects of the nonperturbative renormalization of the phi^4 model	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:J. Kaupuzs	 Abstract: A nonperturbative renormalization of the phi^4 model is considered. First we integrate out only a single pair of conjugated modes with wave vectors +/- q. Then we are looking for the RG equation which would describe the transformation of the Hamiltonian under the integration over a shell Lambda - d Lambda < k < Lambda, where d Lambda -> 0. We show that the known Wegner--Houghton equation is consistent with the assumption of a simple superposition of the integration results for +/- q. The renormalized action can be expanded in powers of the phi^4 coupling constant u in the high temperature phase at u -> 0. We compare the expansion coefficients with those exactly calculated by the diagrammatic perturbative method, and find some inconsistency. It causes a question in which sense the Wegner-Houghton equation is really exact. 
0704.00143	Instanton Liquid at Finite Temperature and Chemical Potential of Quarks	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:S.V. Molodtsov, G.M. Zinovjev	 Abstract: Instanton liquid in heated and strongly interacting matter is studied using the variational principle. The dependence of the instanton liquid density (gluon condensate) on the temperature and the quark chemical potential is determined under the assumption that, at finite temperatures, the dominant contribution is given by an ensemble of calorons. The respective one-loop effective quark Lagrangian is used. 
0704.00144	Eternal inflation and localization on the landscape	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:D. Podolsky, K. Enqvist	 Abstract: We model the essential features of eternal inflation on the landscape of a dense discretuum of vacua by the potential $V(\phi)=V_{0}+\delta V(\phi)$, where $|\delta V(\phi)|\ll V_{0}$ is random. We find that the diffusion of the distribution function $\rho(\phi,t)$ of the inflaton expectation value in different Hubble patches may be suppressed due to the effect analogous to the Anderson localization in disordered quantum systems. At $t \to \infty$ only the localized part of the distribution function $\rho (\phi, t)$ survives which leads to dynamical selection principle on the landscape. The probability to measure any but a small value of the cosmological constant in a given Hubble patch on the landscape is exponentially suppressed at $t\to \infty$. 
0704.00145	Singularity Resolution in Isotropic Loop Quantum Cosmology: Recent  Developments	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Ghanashyam Date	 Abstract: Since the past Iagrg meeting in December 2004, new developments in loop quantum cosmology have taken place, especially with regards to the resolution of the Big Bang singularity in the isotropic models. The singularity resolution issue has been discussed in terms of physical quantities (expectation values of Dirac observables) and there is also an ``improved'' quantization of the Hamiltonian constraint. These developments are briefly discussed. This is an expanded version of the review talk given at the 24$^{\mathrm{th}}$ IAGRG meeting in February 2007. 
0704.00146	Vortices in Bose-Einstein Condensates: Theory	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:N. G. Parker, B. Jackson, A. M. Martin, C. S. Adams	 Abstract: Vortices are pervasive in nature, representing the breakdown of laminar fluid flow and hence playing a key role in turbulence. The fluid rotation associated with a vortex can be parameterized by the circulation $\Gamma=\oint {\rm d}{\bf r}\cdot{\bf v}({\bf r})$ about the vortex, where ${\bf v}({\bf r})$ is the fluid velocity field. While classical vortices can take any value of circulation, superfluids are irrotational, and any rotation or angular momentum is constrained to occur through vortices with quantized circulation. Quantized vortices also play a key role in the dissipation of transport in superfluids. In BECs quantized vortices have been observed in several forms, including single vortices, vortex lattices, and vortex pairs and rings. The recent observation of quantized vortices in a fermionic gas was taken as a clear signature of the underlying condensation and superfluidity of fermion pairs. In addition to BECs, quantized vortices also occur in superfluid Helium, nonlinear optics, and type-II superconductors. 
0704.00147	A POVM view of the ensemble approach to polarization optics	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Sudha, A. V. Gopala Rao, A. R. Usha Devi, A. K. Rajagopal	 Abstract: Statistical ensemble formalism of Kim, Mandel and Wolf (J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 4, 433 (1987)) offers a realistic model for characterizing the effect of stochastic non-image forming optical media on the state of polarization of transmittedlight. With suitable choice of the Jones ensemble, various Mueller transformations - some of which have been unknown so far - are deduced. It is observed that the ensemble approach is formally identical to the positive operator valued measures (POVM) on the quantum density matrix. This observation, in combination with the recent suggestion by Ahnert and Payne (Phys. Rev. A 71, 012330, (2005)) - in the context of generalized quantum measurement on single photon polarization states - that linear optics elements can be employed in setting up all possible POVMs, enables us to propose a way of realizing different types of Mueller devices. 
0704.00148	Reexamination of spin decoherence in semiconductor quantum dots from  equation-of-motion approach	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:J. H. Jiang, Y. Y. Wang, M. W. Wu	 Abstract: The longitudinal and transversal spin decoherence times, $T_1$ and $T_2$, in semiconductor quantum dots are investigated from equation-of-motion approach for different magnetic fields, quantum dot sizes, and temperatures. Various mechanisms, such as the hyperfine interaction with the surrounding nuclei, the Dresselhaus spin-orbit coupling together with the electron--bulk-phonon interaction, the $g$-factor fluctuations, the direct spin-phonon coupling due to the phonon-induced strain, and the coaction of the electron--bulk/surface-phonon interaction together with the hyperfine interaction are included. The relative contributions from these spin decoherence mechanisms are compared in detail. In our calculation, the spin-orbit coupling is included in each mechanism and is shown to have marked effect in most cases. The equation-of-motion approach is applied in studying both the spin relaxation time $T_1$ and the spin dephasing time $T_2$, either in Markovian or in non-Markovian limit. When many levels are involved at finite temperature, we demonstrate how to obtain the spin relaxation time from the Fermi Golden rule in the limit of weak spin-orbit coupling. However, at high temperature and/or for large spin-orbit coupling, one has to use the equation-of-motion approach when many levels are involved. Moreover, spin dephasing can be much more efficient than spin relaxation at high temperature, though the two only differs by a factor of two at low temperature. 
0704.00149	Construction of initial data for 3+1 numerical relativity	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Eric Gourgoulhon (LUTH, CNRS / Observatoire de Paris / Univ. Paris 7)	 Abstract: This lecture is devoted to the problem of computing initial data for the Cauchy problem of 3+1 general relativity. The main task is to solve the constraint equations. The conformal technique, introduced by Lichnerowicz and enhanced by York, is presented. Two standard methods, the conformal transverse-traceless one and the conformal thin sandwich, are discussed and illustrated by some simple examples. Finally a short review regarding initial data for binary systems (black holes and neutron stars) is given. 
0704.00150	Magnetism and Thermodynamics of Spin-1/2 Heisenberg Diamond Chains in a  Magnetic Field	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Bo Gu, Gang Su	 Abstract: The magnetic and thermodynamic properties of spin-1/2 Heisenberg diamond chains are investigated in three different cases: (a) J1, J2, J3>0 (frustrated); (b) J1, J3<0, J2>0 (frustrated); and (c) J1, J2>0, J3<0 (non-frustrated). The density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) technique is invoked to study the properties of the system in the ground state, while the transfer matrix renormalization group (TMRG) technique is applied to explore the thermodynamic properties. The local magnetic moments, spin correlation functions, and static structure factors are discussed in the ground state for the three cases. It is shown that the static structure factor S(q) shows peaks at wavevectors $q=a\pi /3$ (a=0,1,2,3,4,5) for different couplings in a zero magnetic field, which, however in the magnetic fields where the magnetization plateau with m=1/6 pertains, exhibits the peaks only at q=0, $2\pi /3$ and $4\pi /3$, which are found to be couplings-independent. The DMRG results of the zero-field static structure factor can be nicely fitted by a linear superposition of six modes, where two fitting equations are proposed. It is observed that the six modes are closely related to the low-lying excitations of the system. At finite temperatures, the double-peak structures of the susceptibility and specific heat against temperature are obtained, where the peak positions and heights are found to depend on the competition of the couplings. It is also uncovered that the XXZ anisotropy of F and AF couplings leads the system of case (c) to display quite different behaviors. In addition, the experimental data of the susceptibility, specific heat and magnetization for the compound Cu$_{3}$(CO$_{3}$)$_{2}$(OH)$_{2}$ are fairly compared with our TMRG results. 
0704.00151	Extraction of physical laws from joint experimental data	Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)	Authors:I. Grabec	 Abstract: The extraction of a physical law y=yo(x) from joint experimental data about x and y is treated. The joint, the marginal and the conditional probability density functions (PDF) are expressed by given data over an estimator whose kernel is the instrument scattering function. As an optimal estimator of yo(x) the conditional average is proposed. The analysis of its properties is based upon a new definition of prediction quality. The joint experimental information and the redundancy of joint measurements are expressed by the relative entropy. With the number of experiments the redundancy on average increases, while the experimental information converges to a certain limit value. The difference between this limit value and the experimental information at a finite number of data represents the discrepancy between the experimentally determined and the true properties of the phenomenon. The sum of the discrepancy measure and the redundancy is utilized as a cost function. By its minimum a reasonable number of data for the extraction of the law yo(x) is specified. The mutual information is defined by the marginal and the conditional PDFs of the variables. The ratio between mutual information and marginal information is used to indicate which variable is the independent one. The properties of the introduced statistics are demonstrated on deterministically and randomly related variables. 
0704.00152	Kinetic equation for finite systems of fermions with pairing	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:V.I. Abrosimov, D.M. Brink, A.Dellafiore, F. Matera	 Abstract: The solutions of the Wigner-transformed time-dependent Hartree--Fock--Bogoliubov equations are studied in the constant-$\Delta$ approximation. This approximation is known to violate particle-number conservation. As a consequence, the density fluctuation and the longitudinal response function given by this approximation contain spurious contributions. A simple prescription for restoring both local and global particle-number conservation is proposed. Explicit expressions for the eigenfrequencies of the correlated systems and for the density response function are derived and it is shown that the semiclassical analogous of the quantum single--particle spectrum has an excitation gap of $2\Delta$, in agreement with the quantum result. The collective response is studied for a simplified form of the residual interaction. 
0704.00153	Reciprocal Symmetry and Classical Discrete Oscillator Incorporating  Half-Integral Energy Levels	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Mushfiq Ahmad	 Abstract: Classical oscillator differential equation is replaced by the corresponding (finite time) difference equation. The equation is, then, symmetrized so that it remains invariant under the change d going to -d, where d is the smallest span of time. This symmetric equation has solutions, which come in reciprocally related pairs. One member of a pair agrees with the classical solution and the other is an oscillating solution and does not converge to a limit as d goes to 0. This solution contributes to oscillator energy a term which is a multiple of half-integers. 
0704.00154	Hadrons in Medium -- Theory confronts experiment	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Fabian Eichstaedt, Stefan Leupold, Ulrich Mosel, Pascal Muehlich	 Abstract: In this talk we briefly summarize our theoretical understanding of in-medium selfenergies of hadrons. With the special case of the $\omega$ meson we demonstrate that earlier calculations that predicted a significant lowering of the mass in medium are based on an incorrect treatment of the model Lagrangian; more consistent calculations lead to a significant broadening, but hardly any mass shift. We stress that the experimental reconstruction of hadron spectral functions from measured decay products always requires knowledge of the decay branching ratios which may also be strongly mass-dependent. It also requires a quantitatively reliable treatment of final state interactions which has to be part of any reliable theory. 
0704.00155	A computer program for fast non-LTE analysis of interstellar line  spectra	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Floris van der Tak (SRON Groningen), John Black (Onsala), Fredrik Schoeier (Stockholm), David Jansen, Ewine van Dishoeck (Leiden)	 Abstract: The large quantity and high quality of modern radio and infrared line observations require efficient modeling techniques to infer physical and chemical parameters such as temperature, density, and molecular abundances. We present a computer program to calculate the intensities of atomic and molecular lines produced in a uniform medium, based on statistical equilibrium calculations involving collisional and radiative processes and including radiation from background sources. Optical depth effects are treated with an escape probability method. The program is available on the World Wide Web at this http URL . The program makes use of molecular data files maintained in the Leiden Atomic and Molecular Database (LAMDA), which will continue to be improved and expanded. The performance of the program is compared with more approximate and with more sophisticated methods. An Appendix provides diagnostic plots to estimate physical parameters from line intensity ratios of commonly observed molecules. This program should form an important tool in analyzing observations from current and future radio and infrared telescopes. 
0704.00156	Nonlinear force-free coronal magnetic field extrapolation scheme based  on the direct boundary integral formulation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Han He, Huaning Wang	 Abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors. 
0704.00157	Alternative Approaches to the Equilibrium Properties of Hard-Sphere  Liquids	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:M. Lopez de Haro, S. B. Yuste, A. Santos	 Abstract: An overview of some analytical approaches to the computation of the structural and thermodynamic properties of single component and multicomponent hard-sphere fluids is provided. For the structural properties, they yield a thermodynamically consistent formulation, thus improving and extending the known analytical results of the Percus-Yevick theory. Approximate expressions for the contact values of the radial distribution functions and the corresponding analytical equations of state are also discussed. Extensions of this methodology to related systems, such as sticky hard spheres and square-well fluids, as well as its use in connection with the perturbation theory of fluids are briefly addressed. 
0704.00158	Complexities of Human Promoter Sequences	Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT)	Authors:Fangcui Zhao, Huijie Yang, Binghong Wang	 Abstract: By means of the diffusion entropy approach, we detect the scale-invariance characteristics embedded in the 4737 human promoter sequences. The exponent for the scale-invariance is in a wide range of $[ {0.3,0.9} ]$, which centered at $\delta_c = 0.66$. The distribution of the exponent can be separated into left and right branches with respect to the maximum. The left and right branches are asymmetric and can be fitted exactly with Gaussian form with different widths, respectively. 
0704.00159	Evidence for an excitonic insulator phase in 1T-TiSe$_{2}$	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:H. Cercellier, C. Monney, F. Clerc, C. Battaglia, L. Despont, M. G. Garnier, H. Beck, L. Patthey, H. Berger, P. Aebi	 Abstract: We present a new high-resolution angle-resolved photoemission study of 1\textit{T}-TiSe$_{2}$ in both, its room-temperature, normal phase and its low-temperature, charge-density wave phase. At low temperature the photoemission spectra are strongly modified, with large band renormalisations at high-symmetry points of the Brillouin zone and a very large transfer of spectral weight to backfolded bands. A theoretical calculation of the spectral function for an excitonic insulator phase reproduces the experimental features with very good agreement. This gives strong evidence in favour of the excitonic insulator scenario as a driving force for the charge-density wave transition in 1\textit{T}-TiSe$_{2}$. 
0704.00160	Oxygen-rich droplets and the enrichment of the ISM	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G. Stasinska, G. Tenorio-Tagle, M. Rodriguez, W. J. Henney	 Abstract: We argue that the discrepancies observed in HII regions between abundances derived from optical recombination lines (ORLs) and collisionally excited lines (CELs) might well be the signature of a scenario of the enrichment of the interstellar medium (ISM) proposed by Tenorio-Tagle (1996). In this scenario, the fresh oxygen released during massive supernova explosions is confined within the hot superbubbles as long as supernovae continue to explode. Only after the last massive supernova explosion, the metal-rich gas starts cooling down and falls on the galaxy within metal-rich droplets. Full mixing of these metal-rich droplets and the ISM occurs during photoionization by the next generations of massive stars. During this process, the metal-rich droplets give rise to strong recombination lines of the metals, leading to the observed ORL-CEL discrepancy. (The full version of this work is submitted to Astronomy and Astrophysics.) 
0704.00161	Soft modes and NTE in Zn(CN)2 from Raman spectroscopy and first  principles calculations	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:T. R. Ravindran, A. K. Arora, Sharat Chandra, M. C. Valsakumar, N. V. Chandra Shekar	 Abstract: We have studied Zn(CN)2 at high pressure using Raman spectroscopy, and report Gruneisen parameters of the soft phonons. The phonon frequencies and eigen vectors obtained from ab-initio calculations are used for the assignment of the observed phonon spectra. Out of the eleven zone-centre optical modes, six modes exhibit negative Gruneisen parameter. The calculations suggest that the soft phonons correspond to the librational and translational modes of CN rigid unit, with librational modes contributing more to thermal expansion. A rapid disordering of the lattice is found above 1.6 GPa from X-ray diffraction. 
0704.00162	Estimation of experimental data redundancy and related statistics	Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)	Authors:I. Grabec	 Abstract: Redundancy of experimental data is the basic statistic from which the complexity of a natural phenomenon and the proper number of experiments needed for its exploration can be estimated. The redundancy is expressed by the entropy of information pertaining to the probability density function of experimental variables. Since the calculation of entropy is inconvenient due to integration over a range of variables, an approximate expression for redundancy is derived that includes only a sum over the set of experimental data about these variables. The approximation makes feasible an efficient estimation of the redundancy of data along with the related experimental information and information cost function. From the experimental information the complexity of the phenomenon can be simply estimated, while the proper number of experiments needed for its exploration can be determined from the minimum of the cost function. The performance of the approximate estimation of these statistics is demonstrated on two-dimensional normally distributed random data. 
0704.00163	Effective potentials for quasicrystals from ab-initio data	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Peter Brommer, Franz Gähler (Institut für Theoretische und Angewandte Physik, Universität Stuttgart)	 Abstract: Classical effective potentials are indispensable for any large-scale atomistic simulations, and the relevance of simulation results crucially depends on the quality of the potentials used. For complex alloys like quasicrystals, however, realistic effective potentials are practically inexistent. We report here on our efforts to develop effective potentials especially for quasicrystalline alloy systems. We use the so-called force matching method, in which the potential parameters are adapted so as to optimally reproduce the forces and energies in a set of suitably chosen reference configurations. These reference data are calculated with ab-initio methods. As a first application, EAM potentials for decagonal Al-Ni-Co, icosahedral Ca-Cd, and both icosahedral and decagonal Mg-Zn quasicrystals have been constructed. The influence of the potential range and degree of specialisation on the accuracy and other properties is discussed and compared. 
0704.00164	On smooth foliations with Morse singularities	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Lilia Rosati	 Abstract: Let $M$ be a smooth manifold and let $\F$ be a codimension one, $C^\infty$ foliation on $M$, with isolated singularities of Morse type. The study and classification of pairs $(M,\F)$ is a challenging (and difficult) problem. In this setting, a classical result due to Reeb \cite{Reeb} states that a manifold admitting a foliation with exactly two center-type singularities is a sphere. In particular this is true if the foliation is given by a function. Along these lines a result due to Eells and Kuiper \cite{Ku-Ee} classify manifolds having a real-valued function admitting exactly three non-degenerate singular points. In the present paper, we prove a generalization of the above mentioned results. To do this, we first describe the possible arrangements of pairs of singularities and the corresponding codimension one invariant sets, and then we give an elimination procedure for suitable center-saddle and some saddle-saddle configurations (of consecutive indices). In the second part, we investigate if other classical results, such as Haefliger and Novikov (Compact Leaf) theorems, proved for regular foliations, still hold true in presence of singularities. At this purpose, in the singular set, $Sing(\F)$ of the foliation $\F$, we consider {\em{weakly stable}} components, that we define as those components admitting a neighborhood where all leaves are compact. If $Sing(\F)$ admits only weakly stable components, given by smoothly embedded curves diffeomorphic to $S^1$, we are able to extend Haefliger's theorem. Finally, the existence of a closed curve, transverse to the foliation, leads us to state a Novikov-type result. 
0704.00165	Frobenius-Schur indicators for semisimple Lie algebras	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Mohammad Abu-Hamed, Shlomo Gelaki	 Abstract: Let g be a finite dimensional complex semisimple Lie algebra, and let V be a finite dimensional represenation of g. We give a closed formula for the mth Frobenius-Schur indicator, m>1, of V in representation-theoretic terms. We deduce that the indicators take integer values, and that for a large enough m, the mth indicator of V equals the dimension of the zero weight space of V. For the classical Lie algebras sl(n), so(2n), so(2n+1) and sp(2n), this is the case for m greater or equal to 2n-1, 4n-5, 4n-3 and 2n+1, respectively. 
0704.00166	Supersymmetry breaking metastable vacua in runaway quiver gauge theories	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Inaki Garcia-Etxebarria, Fouad Saad, Angel M. Uranga	 Abstract: In this paper we consider quiver gauge theories with fractional branes whose infrared dynamics removes the classical supersymmetric vacua (DSB branes). We show that addition of flavors to these theories (via additional non-compact branes) leads to local meta-stable supersymmetry breaking minima, closely related to those of SQCD with massive flavors. We simplify the study of the one-loop lifting of the accidental classical flat directions by direct computation of the pseudomoduli masses via Feynman diagrams. This new approach allows to obtain analytic results for all these theories. This work extends the results for the $dP_1$ theory in hep-th/0607218. The new approach allows to generalize the computation to general examples of DSB branes, and for arbitrary values of the superpotential couplings. 
0704.00167	Low Energy Aspects of Heavy Meson Decays	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Jan O. Eeg	 Abstract: I discuss low energy aspects of heavy meson decays, where there is at least one heavy meson in the final state. Examples are $B -\bar{B}$ mixing, $B \to D \bar{D}$, $B \to D \eta'$, and $B \to D \gamma$. %and $B \to D W $ (Isgur-Wise function). The analysis is performed in the heavy quark limit within heavy-light chiral perturbation theory. Coefficients of $1/N_c$ suppressed chiral Lagrangian terms (beyond factorization) have been estimated by means of a heavy-light chiral quark model. 
0704.00168	Radiative losses and cut-offs of energetic particles at relativistic  shocks	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Paul Dempsey, Peter Duffy	 Abstract: We investigate the acceleration and simultaneous radiative losses of electrons in the vicinity of relativistic shocks. Particles undergo pitch angle diffusion, gaining energy as they cross the shock by the Fermi mechanism and also emitting synchrotron radiation in the ambient magnetic field. A semi-analytic approach is developed which allows us to consider the behaviour of the shape of the spectral cut-off and the variation of that cut-off with the particle pitch angle. The implications for the synchrotron emission of relativistic jets, such as those in gamma ray burst sources and blazars, are discussed. 
0704.00169	Very strong and slowly varying magnetic fields as source of axions	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Giorgio Calucci	 Abstract: The investigation on the production of particles in slowly varying but extremely intense magnetic field in extended to the case of axions. The motivation is, as for some previously considered cases, the possibility that such kind of magnetic field may exist around very compact astrophysical objects. 
0704.00170	Symmetry disquisition on the TiOX phase diagram	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Daniele Fausti, Tom T. A. Lummen, Cosmina Angelescu, Roberto Macovez, Javier Luzon, Ria Broer, Petra Rudolf, Paul H.M. van Loosdrecht, Natalia Tristan, Bernd Buchner, Sander van Smaalen, Angela Moller, Gerd Meyer, Timo Taetz	 Abstract: The sequence of phase transitions and the symmetry of in particular the low temperature incommensurate and spin-Peierls phases of the quasi one-dimensional inorganic spin-Peierls system TiOX (TiOBr and TiOCl) have been studied using inelastic light scattering experiments. The anomalous first-order character of the transition to the spin-Peierls phase is found to be a consequence of the different symmetries of the incommensurate and spin-Peierls (P$2_{1}/m$) phases. The pressure dependence of the lowest transition temperature strongly suggests that magnetic interchain interactions play an important role in the formation of the spin-Peierls and the incommensurate phases. Finally, a comparison of Raman data on VOCl to the TiOX spectra shows that the high energy scattering observed previously has a phononic origin. 
0704.00171	Discovery of a point-like very-high-energy gamma-ray source in Monoceros	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:F. Aharonian, et al	 Abstract: The complex Monoceros Loop SNR/Rosette Nebula region contains several potential sources of very-high-energy (VHE) gamma-ray emission and two as yet unidentified high-energy EGRET sources. Sensitive VHE observations are required to probe acceleration processes in this region. The H.E.S.S. telescope array has been used to search for very high-energy gamma-ray sources in this region. CO data from the NANTEN telescope were used to map the molecular clouds in the region, which could act as target material for gamma-ray production via hadronic interactions. We announce the discovery of a new gamma-ray source, HESS J0632+058, located close to the rim of the Monoceros SNR. This source is unresolved by H.E.S.S. and has no clear counterpart at other wavelengths but is possibly associated with the weak X-ray source 1RXS J063258.3+054857, the Be-star MWC 148 and/or the lower energy gamma-ray source 3EG J0634+0521. No evidence for an associated molecular cloud was found in the CO data. 
0704.00172	Thermal entanglement of qubit pairs on the Shastry-Sutherland lattice	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:S. El Shawish, A. Ramsak, J. Bonca	 Abstract: We show that temperature and magnetic field properties of the entanglement between spins on the two-dimensional Shastry-Sutherland lattice can be qualitatively described by analytical results for a qubit tetramer. Exact diagonalization of clusters with up to 20 sites reveals that the regime of fully entangled neighboring pairs coincides with the regime of finite spin gap in the spectrum. Additionally, the results for the regime of vanishing spin gap are discussed and related to the Heisenberg limit of the model. 
0704.00173	Bonding of H in O vacancies of ZnO	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:H. Takenaka, D.J. Singh	 Abstract: We investigate the bonding of H in O vacancies of ZnO using density functional calculations. We find that H is anionic and does not form multicenter bonds with Zn in this compound. 
0704.00174	Reparametrization Invariance, the controversial extraction of $α$  from $B\toππ$ and New Physics	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Francisco J. Botella (Valencia U. & Valencia U., IFIC), Miguel Nebot (Lisbon, IST)	 Abstract: The extraction of the weak phase $\alpha$ from $B\to\pi\pi$ decays has been controversial from a statistical point of view, as the frequentist vs. bayesian confrontation shows. We analyse several relevant questions which have not deserved full attention and pervade the extraction of $\alpha$. Reparametrization Invariance proves appropriate to understand those issues. We show that some Standard Model inspired parametrizations can be senseless or inadequate if they go beyond the minimal Gronau and London assumptions: the single weak phase $\alpha$ just in the $\Delta I=3/2$ amplitudes, the isospin relations and experimental data. Beside those analyses, we extract $\alpha$ through the use of several adequate parametrizations, showing that there is no relevant discrepancy between frequentist and bayesian results. The most relevant information, in terms of $\alpha$, is the exclusion of values around $\alpha\sim \pi/4$; this result is valid in the presence of arbitrary New Physics contributions to the $\Delta I=1/2$ piece. 
0704.00175	Solar System Constraints on Gauss-Bonnet Mediated Dark Energy	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Luca Amendola, Christos Charmousis, Stephen C. Davis	 Abstract: Although the Gauss-Bonnet term is a topological invariant for general relativity, it couples naturally to a quintessence scalar field, modifying gravity at solar system scales. We determine the solar system constraints due to this term by evaluating the post-Newtonian metric for a distributional source. We find a mass dependent, 1/r^7 correction to the Newtonian potential, and also deviations from the Einstein gravity prediction for light-bending. We constrain the parameters of the theory using planetary orbits, the Cassini spacecraft data, and a laboratory test of Newton's law, always finding extremely tight bounds on the energy associated to the Gauss-Bonnet term. We discuss the relevance of these constraints to late-time cosmological acceleration. 
0704.00176	Switching mechanism of photochromic diarylethene derivatives molecular  junctions	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Jing Huang, Qunxiang Li, Hao Ren, Haibin Su, Q. W. Shi, Jinlong Yang	 Abstract: The electronic transport properties and switching mechanism of single photochromic diarylethene derivatives sandwiched between two gold surfaces with closed and open configurations are investigated by a fully self-consistent nonequilibrium Green's function method combined with density functional theory. The calculated transmission spectra of two configurations are strikingly distinctive. The open form lacks any significant transmission peak within a wide energy window, while the closed structure has two significant transmission peaks on the both sides of the Fermi level. The electronic transport properties of the molecular junction with closed structure under a small bias voltage are mainly determined by the tail of the transmission peak contributed unusually by the perturbed lowest perturbed unoccupied molecular orbital. The calculated on-off ratio of currents between the closed and open configurations is about two orders of magnitude, which reproduces the essential features of the experimental measured results. Moreover, we find that the switching behavior within a wide bias voltage window is extremely robust to both substituting F or S for H or O and varying end anchoring atoms from S to Se and Te. 
0704.00177	Robust manipulation of electron spin coherence in an ensemble of singly  charged quantum dots	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:A. Greilich (1), M. Wiemann (1), F. G. G. Hernandez (1), D. R. Yakovlev (1), I. A. Yugova (1), A. Shabaev (2), Al. L. Efros (2), D. Reuter (3), A. D. Wieck (3), M. Bayer (1) ((1) Universität Dortmund, Germany, (2) Washington, USA, (3) Ruhr-Universität Bochum, Germany)	 Abstract: Using the recently reported mode locking effect we demonstrate a highly robust control of electron spin coherence in an ensemble of (In,Ga)As quantum dots during the single spin coherence time. The spin precession in a transverse magnetic field can be fully controlled up to 25 K by the parameters of the exciting pulsed laser protocol such as the pulse train sequence, leading to adjustable quantum beat bursts in Faraday rotation. Flipping of the electron spin precession phase was demonstrated by inverting the polarization within a pulse doublet sequence. 
0704.00178	Equation of state for dense hydrogen and plasma phase transition	Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)	Authors:Bastian Holst, Nadine Nettelmann, Ronald Redmer	 Abstract: We calculate the equation of state of dense hydrogen within the chemical picture. Fluid variational theory is generalized for a multi-component system of molecules, atoms, electrons, and protons. Chemical equilibrium is supposed for the reactions dissociation and ionization. We identify the region of thermodynamic instability which is related to the plasma phase transition. The reflectivity is calculated along the Hugoniot curve and compared with experimental results. The equation-of-state data is used to calculate the pressure and temperature profiles for the interior of Jupiter. 
0704.00179	Experimental nonclassicality of single-photon-added thermal light states	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Alessandro Zavatta, Valentina Parigi, Marco Bellini	 Abstract: We report the experimental realization and tomographic analysis of novel quantum light states obtained by exciting a classical thermal field by a single photon. Such states, although completely incoherent, possess a tunable degree of quantumness which is here exploited to put to a stringent experimental test some of the criteria proposed for the proof and the measurement of state non-classicality. The quantum character of the states is also given in quantum information terms by evaluating the amount of entanglement that they can produce. 
0704.00180	Neutron Skin and Giant Resonances in Nuclei	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Vadim Rodin	 Abstract: Some aspects, both experimental and theoretical, of extracting the neutron skin $\Delta R$ from properties of isovector giant resonances are discussed. Existing proposals are critically reviewed. The method relying on the energy difference between the GTR and IAS is shown to lack sensitivity to $\Delta R$. A simple explanation of the linear relation between the symmetry energy and the neutron skin is also given. 
0704.00181	Genetic Optimization of Photonic Bandgap Structures	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Joel Goh, Ilya Fushman, Dirk Englund, Jelena Vuckovic	 Abstract: We investigate the use of a Genetic Algorithm (GA) to design a set of photonic crystals (PCs) in one and two dimensions. Our flexible design methodology allows us to optimize PC structures which are optimized for specific objectives. In this paper, we report the results of several such GA-based PC optimizations. We show that the GA performs well even in very complex design spaces, and therefore has great potential for use as a robust design tool in present and future applications. 
0704.00182	Huge magneto-crystalline anisotropy of x-ray linear dichroism observed  on Co/FeMn bilayers	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:W. Kuch, F. Offi, L. I. Chelaru, J. Wang, K. Fukumoto, M. Kotsugi, J. Kirschner, J. Kunes	 Abstract: We present an x-ray spectromicroscopic investigation of single-crystalline magnetic FeMn/Co bilayers on Cu(001), using X-ray magnetic circular (XMCD) and linear (XMLD) dichroism at the Co and Fe L3 absorption edges in combination with photoelectron emission microscopy (PEEM). Using the magnetic coupling between the ferromagnetic Co layer and the antiferromagnetic FeMn layer we are able to produce magnetic domains with two different crystallographic orientations of the magnetic easy axis within the same sample at the same time. We find a huge difference in the XMLD contrast between the two types of magnetic domains, which we discuss in terms of intrinsic magneto-crystalline anisotropy of XMLD of the Co layer. We also demonstrate that due to the high sensitivity of the method, the small number of induced ferromagnetic Fe moments at the FeMn-Co interface is sufficient to obtain magnetic contrast from XMLD in a metallic system. 
0704.00183	Temperature Dependence of the Tensile Properties of Single Walled Carbon  Nanotubes: O(N) Tight Binding MD Simulation	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:G. Dereli, B. Sungu (Yildiz Tech. Univ., Istanbul)	 Abstract: This paper examines the effect of temperature on the structural stability and mechanical properties of 20 layered (10,10) single walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) under tensile loading using an O(N) tight binding molecular dynamics (TBMD) simulation method. We observed that (10,10) tube can sustain its structural stability for the strain values of 0.23 in elongation and 0.06 in compression at 300K. Bond breaking strain value decreases with increasing temperature under streching but not under compression. The elastic limit, Young's modulus, tensile strength and Poisson ratio are calculated as 0.10, 0.395 TPa, 83.23 GPa, 0.285, respectively, at 300K. In the temperature range from 300K to 900K; Young's modulus and the tensile strengths are decreasing with increasing temperature while the Poisson ratio is increasing. At higher temperatures, Young's modulus starts to increase while the Poisson ratio and tensile strength decrease. In the temperature range from 1200K to 1800K, the SWCNT is already deformed and softened. Applying strain on these deformed and softened SWCNTs do not follow the same pattern as in the temperature range of 300K to 900K. 
0704.00184	Gamma-ray emitting AGN and GLAST	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. Padovani (ESO)	 Abstract: I describe the different classes of Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) and the basic tenets of unified schemes. I then review the properties of the extragalactic sources detected in the GeV and TeV bands, showing that the vast majority of them belong to the very rare blazar class. I further discuss the kind of AGN GLAST is likely to detect, making some predictions going from the obvious to the likely, all the way to the less probable. 
0704.00185	Potfit: effective potentials from ab-initio data	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Peter Brommer, Franz Gähler (Institut für Theoretische und Angewandte Physik, Universität Stuttgart)	 Abstract: We present a program called potfit which generates an effective atomic interaction potential by matching it to a set of reference data computed in first-principles calculations. It thus allows to perform large-scale atomistic simulations of materials with physically justified potentials. We describe the fundamental principles behind the program, emphasizing its flexibility in adapting to different systems and potential models, while also discussing its limitations. The program has been used successfully in creating effective potentials for a number of complex intermetallic alloys, notably quasicrystals. 
0704.00186	Dark energy and neutrino model in SUSY -- Remarks on active and sterile  neutrinos mixing --	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Ryo Takahashi, Morimitsu Tanimoto	 Abstract: We consider a Mass Varying Neutrinos (MaVaNs) model in supersymmetric theory. The model includes effects of supersymmetry breaking transmitted by the gravitational interaction from the hidden sector, in which supersymmetry was broken, to the dark energy sector. Then evolutions of the neutrino mass and the equation of state parameter of the dark energy are presented in the model. It is remarked that only the mass of a sterile neutrino is variable in the case of the vanishing mixing between the left-handed and a sterile neutrino on cosmological time scale. The finite mixing makes the mass of the left-handed neutrino variable. 
0704.00187	The transverse proximity effect in spectral hardness on the line of  sight towards HE 2347-4342	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G. Worseck (1), C. Fechner (2,3), L. Wisotzki (1), A. Dall'Aglio (1) ((1) Astrophysikalisches Institut Potsdam, (2) Hamburger Sternwarte, (3) Universität Potsdam)	 Abstract: We report the discovery of 14 quasars in the vicinity of HE2347-4342, one of the two quasars whose intergalactic HeII forest has been resolved with FUSE. By analysing the HI and the HeII opacity variations separately, no transverse proximity effect is detected near three foreground quasars of HE2347-4342: QSOJ23503-4328 (z=2.282, $\vartheta=3.59$ arcmin), QSOJ23500-4319 (z=2.302, $\vartheta=8.77$ arcmin) and QSOJ23495-4338 (z=2.690, $\vartheta=16.28$ arcmin). This is primarily due to line contamination and overdensities probably created by large-scale structure. By comparing the HI absorption and the corresponding HeII absorption, we estimated the fluctuating spectral shape of the extragalactic UV radiation field along this line of sight. We find that the UV spectral shape near HE2347-4342 and in the projected vicinity of the three foreground quasars is statistically harder than expected from UV background models dominated by quasars. In addition, we find three highly ionised metal line systems near the quasars. However, they do not yield further constraints on the shape of the ionising field. We conclude that the foreground quasars show a transverse proximity effect that is detectable as a local hardening of the UV radiation field, although the evidence is strongest for QSOJ23495-4338. Thus, the relative spectral hardness traces the proximity effect also in overdense regions prohibiting the traditional detection in the HI forest. Furthermore, we emphasise that softening of quasar radiation by radiative transfer in the intergalactic medium is important to understand the observed spectral shape variations. From the transverse proximity effect of QSOJ23495-4338 we obtain a lower limit on the quasar lifetime of ~25 Myr. 
0704.00188	Biased random walks on combs	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Tanya M Elliott, John F Wheater	 Abstract: We develop rigorous, analytic techniques to study the behaviour of biased random walks on combs. This enables us to calculate exactly the spectral dimension of random comb ensembles for any bias scenario in the teeth or spine. Two specific examples of random comb ensembles are discussed; the random comb with nonzero probability of an infinitely long tooth at each vertex on the spine and the random comb with a power law distribution of tooth lengths. We also analyze transport properties along the spine for these probability measures. 
0704.00189	Monoid generalizations of the Richard Thompson groups	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:J. C. Birget	 Abstract: The groups G_{k,1} of Richard Thompson and Graham Higman can be generalized in a natural way to monoids, that we call M_{k,1}, and to inverse monoids, called Inv_{k,1}; this is done by simply generalizing bijections to partial functions or partial injective functions. The monoids M_{k,1} have connections with circuit complexity (studied in another paper). Here we prove that M_{k,1} and Inv_{k,1} are congruence-simple for all k. Their Green relations J and D are characterized: M_{k,1} and Inv_{k,1} are J-0-simple, and they have k-1 non-zero D-classes. They are submonoids of the multiplicative part of the Cuntz algebra O_k. They are finitely generated, and their word problem over any finite generating set is in P. Their word problem is coNP-complete over certain infinite generating sets. Changes in this version: Section 4 has been thoroughly revised, and errors have been corrected; however, the main results of Section 4 do not change. Sections 1, 2, and 3 are unchanged, except for the proof of Theorem 2.3, which was incomplete; a complete proof was published in the Appendix of reference [6], and is also given here. 
0704.00190	The Reliability on the Direction of the Incident Neutrino for the Fully  Contained Events and Partially Contained Events due to QEL in the  Super-Kamiokande	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:E. Konishi (1), Y. Minorikawa (2), V.I. Galkin (3), M. Ishiwata (4), I. Nakamura (4), N. Takahashit (1), M. Kato (5), A. Misaki (6) ((1) Graduate School of Science and Technology, Hirosaki University (2) School of Science and Engineering, Kinki University (3) Department of Physics, Moscow State University (4) Department of Physics, Saitama University (5) Kyowa Interface Science Co., Ltd., Saitama (6)Advanced Research Institute for Science and Engineering, Waseda University, Tokyo)	 Abstract: In the SK analysis of the neutrino events for [Fully Contained Events] and [Partially Contained Events] on their zenith angle distribution, it is assumed that the zenith angle of the incident neutrino is the same as that of the detected charged lepton. In the present paper, we examine the validity of [the SK assumption on the direction] of the incident neutrinos. Concretely speaking, we analyze muon-like events due to QEL. For the purpose, we develop [Time Sequential Monte Carlo Simulation] to extract the conclusion on the validity of the SK assumption. In our [Time Sequential Simulation], we simulate every physical process concerned as exactly as possible without any approximation. From the comparison between the zenith angle distributon of the emitted muons under [the SK assumption on the direction] and the corresponding one obtained under our [Time Sequential Simulation], it is concluded that the measurement of the direction of the incident neutrino for the neutrino events occurring inside the detector in the SK analysis turns out to be unreliable, which holds irrespective of the existence and/or non-existence of the neutrino oscillation. 
0704.00191	Intricate Knots in Proteins: Function and Evolution	Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)	Authors:Peter Virnau (1), Leonid A. Mirny (1,2), Mehran Kardar (1) ((1) Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Department of Physics, Cambridge, MA, United States of America, (2) Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard-MIT Division of Health Science and Technology, Cambridge, MA, United States of America)	 Abstract: A number of recently discovered protein structures incorporate a rather unexpected structural feature: a knot in the polypeptide backbone. These knots are extremely rare, but their occurrence is likely connected to protein function in as yet unexplored fashion. Our analysis of the complete Protein Data Bank reveals several new knots which, along with previously discovered ones, can shed light on such connections. In particular, we identify the most complex knot discovered to date in human ubiquitin hydrolase, and suggest that its entangled topology protects it against unfolding and degradation by the proteasome. Knots in proteins are typically preserved across species and sometimes even across kingdoms. However, we also identify a knot which only appears in some transcarbamylases while being absent in homologous proteins of similar structure. The emergence of the knot is accompanied by a shift in the enzymatic function of the protein. We suggest that the simple insertion of a short DNA fragment into the gene may suffice to turn an unknotted into a knotted structure in this protein. 
0704.00192	Star Formation in Galaxies with Large Lower Surface Brightness Disks	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K. O'Neil, S. Oey, G. Bothun	 Abstract: We present B, R, and Halpha imaging data of 19 large disk galaxies whose properties are intermediate between classical low surface brightness galaxies and ordinary high surface brightness galaxies. We use data taken from the Lowell 1.8m Perkins telescope to determine the galaxies' overall morphology, color, and star formation properties. Morphologically, the galaxies range from Sb through Irr and include galaxies with and without nuclear bars. The colors of the galaxies vary from B-R = 0.3 - 1.9, and most show at least a slight bluing of the colors with increasing radius. The Halpha images of these galaxies show an average star formation rate lower than is found for similar samples with higher surface brightness disks. Additionally, the galaxies studied have both higher gas mass-to-luminosity and diffuse Halpha emission than is found in higher surface brightness samples. 
0704.00193	Domain Wall Dynamics near a Quantum Critical Point	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Shengjun Yuan, Hans De Raedt, Seiji Miyashita	 Abstract: We study the real-time domain-wall dynamics near a quantum critical point of the one-dimensional anisotropic ferromagnetic spin 1/2 chain. By numerical simulation, we find the domain wall is dynamically stable in the Heisenberg-Ising model. Near the quantum critical point, the width of the domain wall diverges as $(\Delta -1) ^{-1/2}$. 
0704.00194	Quantum mechanical approach to decoherence and relaxation generated by  fluctuating environment	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:S.A. Gurvitz, D. Mozyrsky	 Abstract: We consider an electrostatic qubit, interacting with a fluctuating charge of single electron transistor (SET) in the framework of exactly solvable model. The SET plays a role of the fluctuating environment affecting the qubit's parameters in a controllable way. We derive the rate equations describing dynamics of the entire system for both weak and strong qubit-SET coupling. Solving these equation we obtain decoherence and relaxation rates of the qubit, as well as the spectral density of the fluctuating qubit's parameters. We found that in the weak coupling regime the decoherence and relaxation rates are directly related to the spectral density taken at Rabi or at zero frequency, depending on what a particular qubit's parameters is fluctuating. This relation holds also in the presence of weak back-action of the qubit on the fluctuating environment. In the case of strong back-action, such simple relationship no longer holds, even if the qubit-SET coupling is small. It does not hold either in the strong-coupling regime, even in the absence of the back-action. In addition, we found that our model predicts localization of the qubit in the strong-coupling regime, resembling that of the spin-boson model. 
0704.00195	Group-theoretical properties of nilpotent modular categories	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Vladimir Drinfeld, Shlomo Gelaki, Dmitri Nikshych, Victor Ostrik	 Abstract: We characterize a natural class of modular categories of prime power Frobenius-Perron dimension as representation categories of twisted doubles of finite p-groups. We also show that a nilpotent braided fusion category C admits an analogue of the Sylow decomposition. If the simple objects of C have integral Frobenius-Perron dimensions then C is group-theoretical. As a consequence, we obtain that semisimple quasi-Hopf algebras of prime power dimension are group-theoretical. Our arguments are based on a reconstruction of twisted group doubles from Lagrangian subcategories of modular categories (this is reminiscent to the characterization of doubles of quasi-Lie bialgebras in terms of Manin pairs). 
0704.00196	Remarks on N_c dependence of decays of exotic baryons	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Karolina Piesciuk, Michal Praszalowicz	 Abstract: We calculate the N_c dependence of the decay widths of exotic eikosiheptaplet within the framework of Chral Quark Soliton Model. We also discuss generalizations of regular baryon representations for arbitrary N_c. 
0704.00197	Analysis of random Boolean networks using the average sensitivity	Cellular Automata and Lattice Gases (nlin.CG)	Authors:Steffen Schober, Martin Bossert	 Abstract: In this work we consider random Boolean networks that provide a general model for genetic regulatory networks. We extend the analysis of James Lynch who was able to proof Kauffman's conjecture that in the ordered phase of random networks, the number of ineffective and freezing gates is large, where as in the disordered phase their number is small. Lynch proved the conjecture only for networks with connectivity two and non-uniform probabilities for the Boolean functions. We show how to apply the proof to networks with arbitrary connectivity $K$ and to random networks with biased Boolean functions. It turns out that in these cases Lynch's parameter $\lambda$ is equivalent to the expectation of average sensitivity of the Boolean functions used to construct the network. Hence we can apply a known theorem for the expectation of the average sensitivity. In order to prove the results for networks with biased functions, we deduct the expectation of the average sensitivity when only functions with specific connectivity and specific bias are chosen at random. 
0704.00198	Theory of polariton mediated Raman scattering in microcavities	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:L. M. Leon Hilario, A. Bruchhausen, A. M. Lobos, A. A. Aligia	 Abstract: We calculate the intensity of the polariton mediated inelastic light scattering in semiconductor microcavities. We treat the exciton-photon coupling nonperturbatively and incorporate lifetime effects in both excitons and photons, and a coupling of the photons to the electron-hole continuum. Taking the matrix elements as fitting parameters, the results are in excellent agreement with measured Raman intensities due to optical phonons resonant with the upper polariton branches in II-VI microcavities with embedded CdTe quantum wells. 
0704.00199	Decomposition numbers for finite Coxeter groups and generalised  non-crossing partitions	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Christian Krattenthaler (Universität Wien), Thomas Müller (Queen Mary & Westfield College, University of London)	 Abstract: Given a finite irreducible Coxeter group $W$, a positive integer $d$, and types $T_1,T_2,...,T_d$ (in the sense of the classification of finite Coxeter groups), we compute the number of decompositions $c=\si_1\si_2 cdots\si_d$ of a Coxeter element $c$ of $W$, such that $\si_i$ is a Coxeter element in a subgroup of type $T_i$ in $W$, $i=1,2,...,d$, and such that the factorisation is "minimal" in the sense that the sum of the ranks of the $T_i$'s, $i=1,2,...,d$, equals the rank of $W$. For the exceptional types, these decomposition numbers have been computed by the first author. The type $A_n$ decomposition numbers have been computed by Goulden and Jackson, albeit using a somewhat different language. We explain how to extract the type $B_n$ decomposition numbers from results of B\'ona, Bousquet, Labelle and Leroux on map enumeration. Our formula for the type $D_n$ decomposition numbers is new. These results are then used to determine, for a fixed positive integer $l$ and fixed integers $r_1\le r_2\le ...\le r_l$, the number of multi-chains $\pi_1\le \pi_2\le ...\le \pi_l$ in Armstrong's generalised non-crossing partitions poset, where the poset rank of $\pi_i$ equals $r_i$, and where the "block structure" of $\pi_1$ is prescribed. We demonstrate that this result implies all known enumerative results on ordinary and generalised non-crossing partitions via appropriate summations. Surprisingly, this result on multi-chain enumeration is new even for the original non-crossing partitions of Kreweras. Moreover, the result allows one to solve the problem of rank-selected chain enumeration in the type $D_n$ generalised non-crossing partitions poset, which, in turn, leads to a proof of Armstrong's $F=M$ Conjecture in type $D_n$. 
0704.00200	Electromagnetic polarizabilities and the excited states of the nucleon	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Martin Schumacher	 Abstract: The electromagnetic polarizabilities of the nucleon are shown to be essentially composed of the nonresonant $\alpha_p(E_{0+})=+3.2$, $\alpha_n(E_{0+})=+4.1$,the $t$-channel $\alpha^t_{p,n}=-\beta^t_{p,n}=+7.6$ and the resonant $\beta_{p,n}(P_{33}(1232))=+8.3$ contributions (in units of $10^{-4}$fm$^3$. The remaining deviations from the experimental data $\Delta\alpha_p=1.2\pm 0.6$, $\Delta\beta_p=1.2\mp 0.6$, \Delta\alpha_n=0.8\pm 1.7$ and $\Delta\beta_n=2.0\mp 1.8$ are contributed by a larger number of resonant and nonresonant processes with cancellations between the contributions. This result confirms that dominant contributions to the electric and magnetic polarizabilities may be represented in terms of two-photon couplings to the $\sigma$-meson having the predicted mass $m_\sigma=666$ MeV and two-photon width $\Gamma_{\gamma\gamma}=2.6$ keV. 
0704.00201	Hecke-Clifford algebras and spin Hecke algebras I: the classical affine  type	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Ta Khongsap, Weiqiang Wang	 Abstract: Associated to the classical Weyl groups, we introduce the notion of degenerate spin affine Hecke algebras and affine Hecke-Clifford algebras. For these algebras, we establish the PBW properties, formulate the intertwiners, and describe the centers. We further develop connections of these algebras with the usual degenerate (i.e. graded) affine Hecke algebras of Lusztig by introducing a notion of degenerate covering affine Hecke algebras. 
0704.00202	Towards Minimal Resources of Measurement-based Quantum Computation	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Simon Perdrix	 Abstract: We improve the upper bound on the minimal resources required for measurement-based quantum computation. Minimizing the resources required for this model is a key issue for experimental realization of a quantum computer based on projective measurements. This new upper bound allows also to reply in the negative to the open question about the existence of a trade-off between observable and ancillary qubits in measurement-based quantum computation. 
0704.00203	A Spitzer census of the IC 348 nebula	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:August A. Muench, Charles J. Lada, K. L. Luhman, James Muzerolle, Erick Young	 Abstract: We present a Spitzer based census of the IC 348 nebula and embedded star cluster. Our Spitzer census supplemented by ground based spectra has added 42 class II T-Tauri sources to the cluster membership and identified ~20 class 0/I protostars. The population of IC 348 likely exceeds 400 sources after accounting statistically for unidentified diskless members. Our Spitzer census of IC 348 reveals a population of protostars that is anti-correlated spatially with the T-Tauri members, which comprise the centrally condensed cluster around a B star. The protostars are instead found mostly at the cluster periphery about 1 pc from the B star and spread out along a filamentary ridge. We find that the star formation rate in this protostellar ridge is consistent with that rate which built the exposed cluster while the presence of fifteen cold, starless, millimeter cores intermingled with this protostellar population indicates that the IC 348 nebula has yet to finish forming stars. We show that the IC 348 cluster is of order 3-5 crossing times old, and, as evidenced by its smooth radial profile and confirmed mass segregation, is likely relaxed. While it seems apparent that the current cluster configuration is the result of dynamical evolution and its primordial structure has been erased, our findings support a model where embedded clusters are built up from numerous smaller sub-clusters. Finally, the results of our Spitzer census indicate that the supposition that star formation must progress rapidly in a dark cloud should not preclude these observations that show it can be relatively long lived. 
0704.00204	Non-Equilibrium Josephson and Andreev Current through Interacting  Quantum Dots	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Marco G. Pala, Michele Governale, Jürgen König	 Abstract: We present a theory of transport through interacting quantum dots coupled to normal and superconducting leads in the limit of weak tunnel coupling. A Josephson current between two superconducting leads, carried by first-order tunnel processes, can be established by non-equilibrium proximity effect. Both Andreev and Josephson current is suppressed for bias voltages below a threshold set by the Coulomb charging energy. A $\pi$-transition of the supercurrent can be driven by tuning gate or bias voltages. 
0704.00205	Discovery of X-ray emission from the young radio pulsar PSR J1357-6429	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. Esposito, A. Tiengo, A. De Luca, F. Mattana	 Abstract: We present the first X-ray detection of the very young pulsar PSR J1357-6429 (characteristic age of 7.3 kyr) using data from the XMM-Newton and Chandra satellites. We find that the spectrum is well described by a power-law plus blackbody model, with photon index Gamma=1.4 and blackbody temperature kT=160 eV. For the estimated distance of 2.5 kpc, this corresponds to a 2-10 keV luminosity of about 1.2E+32 erg/s, thus the fraction of the spin-down energy channeled by PSR J1357-6429 into X-ray emission is one of the lowest observed. The Chandra data confirm the positional coincidence with the radio pulsar and allow to set an upper limit of 3E+31 erg/s on the 2-10 keV luminosity of a compact pulsar wind nebula. We do not detect any pulsed emission from the source and determine an upper limit of 30% for the modulation amplitude of the X-ray emission at the radio frequency of the pulsar. 
0704.00206	Resonant activation in bistable semiconductor lasers	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Stefano Lepri, Giovanni Giacomelli	 Abstract: We theoretically investigate the possibility of observing resonant activation in the hopping dynamics of two-mode semiconductor lasers. We present a series of simulations of a rate-equations model under random and periodic modulation of the bias current. In both cases, for an optimal choice of the modulation time-scale, the hopping times between the stable lasing modes attain a minimum. The simulation data are understood by means of an effective one-dimensional Langevin equation with multiplicative fluctuations. Our conclusions apply to both Edge Emitting and Vertical Cavity Lasers, thus opening the way to several experimental tests in such optical systems. 
0704.00207	Quark matter and the astrophysics of neutron stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M Prakash	 Abstract: Some of the means through which the possible presence of nearly deconfined quarks in neutron stars can be detected by astrophysical observations of neutron stars from their birth to old age are highlighted. 
0704.00208	Some non-braided fusion categories of rank 3	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Tobias J. Hagge, Seung-Moon Hong	 Abstract: We classify all fusion categories for a given set of fusion rules with three simple object types. If a conjecture of Ostrik is true, our classification completes the classification of fusion categories with three simple object types. To facilitate the discussion we describe a convenient, concrete and useful variation of graphical calculus for fusion categories, discuss pivotality and sphericity in this framework, and give a short and elementary re-proof of the fact that the quadruple dual functor is naturally isomorphic to the identity. 
0704.00209	Chandra Observations of Supernova 1987A	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Sangwook Park, David N. Burrows, Gordon P. Garmire (Penn State), Richard McCray (Colorado), Judith L. Racusin (Penn State), Svetozar A. Zhekov (Space Res Inst)	 Abstract: We have been monitoring Supernova (SN) 1987A with {\it Chandra X-Ray Observatory} since 1999. We present a review of previous results from our {\it Chandra} observations, and some preliminary results from new {\it Chandra} data obtained in 2006 and 2007. High resolution imaging and spectroscopic studies of SN 1987A with {\it Chandra} reveal that X-ray emission of SN 1987A originates from the hot gas heated by interaction of the blast wave with the ring-like dense circumstellar medium (CSM) that was produced by the massive progenitor's equatorial stellar winds before the SN explosion. The blast wave is now sweeping through dense CSM all around the inner ring, and thus SN 1987A is rapidly brightening in soft X-rays. At the age of 20 yr (as of 2007 January), X-ray luminosity of SN 1987A is $L_{\rm X}$ $\sim$ 2.4 $\times$ 10$^{36}$ ergs s$^{-1}$ in the 0.5$-$10 keV band. X-ray emission is described by two-component plane shock model with electron temperatures of $kT$ $\sim$ 0.3 and 2 keV. As the shock front interacts with dense CSM all around the inner ring, the X-ray remnant is now expanding at a much slower rate of $v$ $\sim$ 1400 km s$^{-1}$ than it was until 2004 ($v$ $\sim$ 6000 km s$^{-1}$). 
0704.00210	Classification of superpotentials	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Andrew Dancer, Mckenzie Wang	 Abstract: We extend our previous classification of superpotentials of ``scalar curvature type" for the cohomogeneity one Ricci-flat equations. We now consider the case not covered in our previous paper, i.e., when some weight vector of the superpotential lies outside (a scaled translate of) the convex hull of the weight vectors associated with the scalar curvature function of the principal orbit. In this situation we show that either the isotropy representation has at most 3 irreducible summands or the first order subsystem associated to the superpotential is of the same form as the Calabi-Yau condition for submersion type metrics on complex line bundles over a Fano K\"ahler-Einstein product. 
0704.00211	Linkedness and ordered cycles in digraphs	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Daniela Kühn, Deryk Osthus	 Abstract: The minimum semi-degree of a digraph D is the minimum of its minimum outdegree and its minimum indegree. We show that every sufficiently large digraph D with minimum semi-degree at least n/2 +k-1 is k-linked. The bound on the minimum semi-degree is best possible and confirms a conjecture of Manoussakis from 1990. We also determine the smallest minimum semi-degree which ensures that a sufficiently large digraph D is k-ordered, i.e. that for every ordered sequence of k distinct vertices of D there is a directed cycle which encounters these vertices in this order. 
0704.00212	Curvature and isocurvature perturbations in two-field inflation	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Z. Lalak, D. Langlois, S. Pokorski, K. Turzynski	 Abstract: We study cosmological perturbations in two-field inflation, allowing for non-standard kinetic terms. We calculate analytically the spectra of curvature and isocurvature modes at Hubble crossing, up to first order in the slow-roll parameters. We also compute numerically the evolution of the curvature and isocurvature modes from well within the Hubble radius until the end of inflation. We show explicitly for a few examples, including the recently proposed model of `roulette' inflation, how isocurvature perturbations affect significantly the curvature perturbation between Hubble crossing and the end of inflation. 
0704.00213	Geometric Complexity Theory V: On deciding nonvanishing of a generalized  Littlewood-Richardson coefficient	Computational Complexity (cs.CC)	Authors:Ketan D. Mulmuley Hariharan Narayanan	 Abstract: This article has been withdrawn because it has been merged with the earlier article GCT3 (arXiv: CS/0501076 [cs.CC]) in the series. The merged article is now available as: Geometric Complexity Theory III: on deciding nonvanishing of a Littlewood-Richardson Coefficient, Journal of Algebraic Combinatorics, vol. 36, issue 1, 2012, pp. 103-110. (Authors: Ketan Mulmuley, Hari Narayanan and Milind Sohoni) The new article in this GCT5 slot in the series is: Geometric Complexity Theory V: Equivalence between blackbox derandomization of polynomial identity testing and derandomization of Noether's Normalization Lemma, in the Proceedings of FOCS 2012 (abstract), arXiv:1209.5993 [cs.CC] (full version) (Author: Ketan Mulmuley) 
0704.00214	A schematic model of scattering in PT-symmetric Quantum Mechanics	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Miloslav Znojil	 Abstract: One-dimensional scattering problem admitting a complex, PT-symmetric short-range potential V(x) is considered. Using a Runge-Kutta-discretized version of Schroedinger equation we derive the formulae for the reflection and transmission coefficients and emphasize that the only innovation emerges in fact via a complexification of one of the potential-characterizing parameters. 
0704.00215	The exact asymptotic of the collision time tail distribution for  independent Brownian particles with different drifts	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Zbigniew Puchała, Tomasz Rolski	 Abstract: In this note we consider the time of the collision $\tau$ for $n$ independent Brownian motions $X^1_t,...,X_t^n$ with drifts $a_1,...,a_n$, each starting from $x=(x_1,...,x_n)$, where $x_1<...<x_n$. We show the exact asymptotics of $P_x(\tau>t) = C h(x)t^{-\alpha}e^{-\gamma t}(1 + o(1))$ as $t\to\infty$ and identify $C,h(x),\alpha,\gamma$ in terms of the drifts. 
0704.00216	Ab initio Study of Graphene on SiC	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Alexander Mattausch, Oleg Pankratov	 Abstract: Employing density-functional calculations we study single and double graphene layers on Si- and C-terminated 1x1-6H-SiC surfaces. We show that, in contrast to earlier assumptions, the first carbon layer is covalently bonded to the substrate, and cannot be responsible for the graphene-type electronic spectrum observed experimentally. The characteristic spectrum of free-standing graphene appears with the second carbon layer, which exhibits a weak van der Waals bonding to the underlying structure. For Si-terminated substrate, the interface is metallic, whereas on C-face it is semiconducting or semimetallic for single or double graphene coverage, respectively. 
0704.00217	Capacity of a Multiple-Antenna Fading Channel with a Quantized Precoding  Matrix	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Wiroonsak Santipach, Michael L. Honig	 Abstract: Given a multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) channel, feedback from the receiver can be used to specify a transmit precoding matrix, which selectively activates the strongest channel modes. Here we analyze the performance of Random Vector Quantization (RVQ), in which the precoding matrix is selected from a random codebook containing independent, isotropically distributed entries. We assume that channel elements are i.i.d. and known to the receiver, which relays the optimal (rate-maximizing) precoder codebook index to the transmitter using B bits. We first derive the large system capacity of beamforming (rank-one precoding matrix) as a function of B, where large system refers to the limit as B and the number of transmit and receive antennas all go to infinity with fixed ratios. With beamforming RVQ is asymptotically optimal, i.e., no other quantization scheme can achieve a larger asymptotic rate. The performance of RVQ is also compared with that of a simpler reduced-rank scalar quantization scheme in which the beamformer is constrained to lie in a random subspace. We subsequently consider a precoding matrix with arbitrary rank, and approximate the asymptotic RVQ performance with optimal and linear receivers (matched filter and Minimum Mean Squared Error (MMSE)). Numerical examples show that these approximations accurately predict the performance of finite-size systems of interest. Given a target spectral efficiency, numerical examples show that the amount of feedback required by the linear MMSE receiver is only slightly more than that required by the optimal receiver, whereas the matched filter can require significantly more feedback. 
0704.00218	On Almost Periodicity Criteria for Morphic Sequences in Some Particular  Cases	Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)	Authors:Yuri Pritykin	 Abstract: In some particular cases we give criteria for morphic sequences to be almost periodic (=uniformly recurrent). Namely, we deal with fixed points of non-erasing morphisms and with automatic sequences. In both cases a polynomial-time algorithm solving the problem is found. A result more or less supporting the conjecture of decidability of the general problem is given. 
0704.00219	The Radio Emission, X-ray Emission, and Hydrodynamics of G328.4+0.2: A  Comprehensive Analysis of a Luminous Pulsar Wind Nebula, its Neutron Star,  and the Progenitor Supernova Explosion	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Joseph D. Gelfand, B. M. Gaensler, Patrick O. Slane, Daniel J. Patnaude, John P. Hughes, Fernando Camilo	 Abstract: We present new observational results obtained for the Galactic non-thermal radio source G328.4+0.2 to determine both if this source is a pulsar wind nebula or supernova remnant, and in either case, the physical properties of this source. Using X-ray data obtained by XMM, we confirm that the X-ray emission from this source is heavily absorbed and has a spectrum best fit by a power law model of photon index=2 with no evidence for a thermal component, the X-ray emission from G328.4+0.2 comes from a region significantly smaller than the radio emission, and that the X-ray and radio emission are significantly offset from each other. We also present the results of a new high resolution (7 arcseconds) 1.4 GHz image of G328.4+0.2 obtained using the Australia Telescope Compact Array, and a deep search for radio pulsations using the Parkes Radio Telescope. We find that the radio emission has a flat spectrum, though some areas along the eastern edge of G328.4+0.2 have a steeper radio spectral index of ~-0.3. Additionally, we obtain a luminosity limit of the central pulsar of L_{1400} < 30 mJy kpc^2, assuming a distance of 17 kpc. In light of these observational results, we test if G328.4+0.2 is a pulsar wind nebula (PWN) or a large PWN inside a supernova remnant (SNR) using a simple hydrodynamic model for the evolution of a PWN inside a SNR. As a result of this analysis, we conclude that G328.4+0.2 is a young (< 10000 years old) pulsar wind nebula formed by a low magnetic field (<10^12 G) neutron star born spinning rapidly (<10 ms) expanding into an undetected SNR formed by an energetic (>10^51 ergs), low ejecta mass (M < 5 Solar Masses) supernova explosion which occurred in a low density (n~0.03 cm^{-3}) environment. 
0704.00220	Three Particle Correlations from STAR	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:Jason Glyndwr Ulery (for the STAR Collaboration)	 Abstract: Two-particle correlations have shown modification to the away-side shape in central Au+Au collisions relative to $pp$, d+Au and peripheral Au+Au collisions. Different scenarios can explain this modification including: large angle gluon radiation, jets deflected by transverse flow, path length dependent energy loss, Cerenkov gluon radiation of fast moving particles, and conical flow generated by hydrodynamic Mach-cone shock-waves. Three-particle correlations have the power to distinguish the scenarios with conical emission, conical flow and Cerenkov radiation, from other scenarios. In addition, the dependence of the observed shapes on the $p_T$ of the associated particles can be used to distinguish conical emission from a sonic boom (Mach-cone) and from QCD-Cerenkov radiation. We present results from STAR on 3-particle azimuthal correlations for a high $p_T$ trigger particle with two softer particles. Results are shown for $pp$, d+Au and high statistics Au+Au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{NN}}$=200 GeV. An important aspect of the analysis is the subtraction of combinatorial backgrounds. Systematic uncertainties due to this subtraction and the flow harmonics v2 and v4 are investigated in detail. The implications of the results for the presence or absence of conical flow from Mach-cones are discussed. 
0704.00221	The Return of a Static Universe and the End of Cosmology	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Lawrence M. Krauss (1,2), Robert J. Scherrer (2) ((1) Case Western Reserve University, (2) Vanderbilt University)	 Abstract: We demonstrate that as we extrapolate the current $\Lambda$CDM universe forward in time, all evidence of the Hubble expansion will disappear, so that observers in our "island universe" will be fundamentally incapable of determining the true nature of the universe, including the existence of the highly dominant vacuum energy, the existence of the CMB, and the primordial origin of light elements. With these pillars of the modern Big Bang gone, this epoch will mark the end of cosmology and the return of a static universe. In this sense, the coordinate system appropriate for future observers will perhaps fittingly resemble the static coordinate system in which the de Sitter universe was first presented. 
0704.00222	Dark Matter annihilation in Draco: new considerations on the expected  gamma flux	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Miguel A. Sanchez-Conde	 Abstract: A new estimation of the gamma-ray flux that we expect to detect from SUSY dark matter annihilation from the Draco dSph is presented using the DM density profiles compatible with the latest observations. This calculation takes also into account the important effect of the Point Spread Function (PSF) of the telescope. We show that this effect is crucial in the way we will observe and interpret a possible signal detection. Finally, we discuss the prospects to detect a possible gamma signal from Draco for MAGIC and GLAST. 
0704.00223	Magnetohydrodynamic Rebound Shocks of Supernovae	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Yu-Qing Lou (1,2,3), Wei-Gang Wang (1),  ((1) Tsinghua Center For astrophysics, Tsinghua University, (2)The University of Chicago, (3) National Astronomical Observatories, Chinese Academy of Science.)	 Abstract: We construct magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) similarity rebound shocks joining `quasi-static' asymptotic solutions around the central degenerate core to explore an MHD model for the evolution of random magnetic field in supernova explosions. This provides a theoretical basis for further studying synchrotron diagnostics, MHD shock acceleration of cosmic rays, and the nature of intense magnetic field in compact objects. The magnetic field strength in space approaches a limiting ratio, that is comparable to the ratio of the ejecta mass driven out versus the progenitor mass, during this self-similar rebound MHD shock evolution. The intense magnetic field of the remnant compact star as compared to that of the progenitor star is mainly attributed to both the gravitational core collapse and the radial distribution of magnetic field. 
0704.00224	Are There Mach Cones in Heavy Ion Collisions? Three-Particle  Correlations from STAR	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:Jason Glyndwr Ulery (for the STAR Collaboration)	 Abstract: We present results from STAR on 3-particle azimuthal correlations for a $3<p_T<4$ GeV/c trigger particle with two softer $1<p_T<2$ GeV/c particles. Results are shown for pp, d+Au and high statistics Au+Au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{NN}}=200 GeV$. We observe a 3-particle correlation in central Au+Au collisions which may indicate the presence of conical emission. In addition, the dependence of the observed signal angular position on the $p_T$ of the associated particles can be used to distinguish conical flow from simple QCD-\v{C}erenkov radiation. An important aspect of the analysis is the subtraction of combinatorial backgrounds. Systematic uncertainties due to this subtraction and the flow harmonics $v_2$ and $v_4$ are investigated in detail. 
0704.00225	Exploring First Stars Era with GLAST	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Kashlinsky, D. Band	 Abstract: Cosmic infrared background (CIB) includes emissions from objects inaccessible to current telescopic studies, such as the putative Population III, the first stars. Recently, strong direct evidence for significant CIB levels produced by the first stars came from CIB fluctuations discovered in deep Spitzer images. Such CIB levels should have left a unique absorption feature in the spectra of high-z GRBs and blazars as suggested in [4]. This is observable with GLAST sources at z>2 and measuring this absorption will give important information on energetics and constituents of the first stars era. 
0704.00226	Correlated modulation between the redshifted Fe K alpha line and the  continuum emission in NGC 3783	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:F. Tombesi (1,2), B. De Marco (3), K. Iwasawa (4), M. Cappi (1), M. Dadina (1), G. Ponti (1,2), G. Miniutti (5), G.G.C. Palumbo (2) ((1) INAF-IASF Bologna, (2) UNIBO, (3) SISSA, (4) MPE, (5) Institute of Astronomy, Cambridge)	 Abstract: It has been suggested that X-ray observations of rapidly variable Seyfert galaxies may hold the key to probe the gas orbital motions in the innermost regions of accretion discs around black holes and, thus, trace flow patterns under the effect of the hole strong gravitational field. We explore this possibility analizing XMM-Newton observations of the seyfert 1 galaxy NGC 3783. A detiled time-resolved spectral analysis is performed down to the shortest possible time-scales (few ks) using "excess maps" and cross-correlating light curves in different energy bands. In addition to a constant core of the Fe K alpha line, we detected a variable and redshifted Fe K alpha emission feature between 5.3-6.1 keV. The line exhibits a modulation on a time-scale of 27 ks that is similar to and in phase with a modulation of the 0.3-10 keV source continuum. The time-scale of the correlated variability of the redshifted Fe line and continuum agrees with the local dynamical time-scale of the accretion disc at 10 r_g around a black hole of 10^7 M_sun. Given the shape of the redshfted line emission and the overall X-ray variability pattern, the line is likely to arise from the relativistic region near the black hole. 
0704.00227	Isotopic Effects in Nuclear Reactions at Relativistic Energies	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:C.Sfienti, M. De Napoli, S. Bianchin, A.S. Botvina, J. Brzychczyk, A. Le Fevre, J. Lukasik, P. Pawlowski, W. Trautmann, the ALADiN2000 Collaboration	 Abstract: A systematic study of isotopic effects in the break-up of projectile spectators at relativistic energies has been performed at the GSI laboratory with the ALADiN spectrometer coupled to the LAND neutron detector. Besides a primary beam of 124Sn, also secondary beams of 124La and 107Sn produced at the FRS fragment separator have been used in order to extend the range of isotopic compositions. The gross properties of projectile fragmentation are very similar for all the studied systems but specific isotopic effects have been observed in both neutron and charged particle production. The breakup temperatures obtained from the double ratios of isotopic yields have been extracted and compared with the limiting-temperature expectation. 
0704.00228	Einstein vs Maxwell: Is gravitation a curvature of space, a field in  flat space, or both?	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Theo M. Nieuwenhuizen	 Abstract: Starting with a field theoretic approach in Minkowski space, the gravitational energy momentum tensor is derived from the Einstein equations in a straightforward manner. This allows to present them as {\it acceleration tensor} = const. $\times$ {\it total energy momentum tensor}. For flat space cosmology the gravitational energy is negative and cancels the material energy. In the relativistic theory of gravitation a bimetric coupling between the Riemann and Minkowski metrics breaks general coordinate invariance. The case of a positive cosmological constant is considered. A singularity free version of the Schwarzschild black hole is solved analytically. In the interior the components of the metric tensor quickly die out, but do not change sign, leaving the role of time as usual. For cosmology the $\Lambda$CDM model is covered, while there appears a form of inflation at early times. Here both the total energy and the zero point energy vanish. 
0704.00229	Geometric Complexity Theory VI: the flip via saturated and positive  integer programming in representation theory and algebraic geometry	Computational Complexity (cs.CC)	Authors:Ketan D. Mulmuley	 Abstract: This article belongs to a series on geometric complexity theory (GCT), an approach to the P vs. NP and related problems through algebraic geometry and representation theory. The basic principle behind this approach is called the flip. In essence, it reduces the negative hypothesis in complexity theory (the lower bound problems), such as the P vs. NP problem in characteristic zero, to the positive hypothesis in complexity theory (the upper bound problems): specifically, to showing that the problems of deciding nonvanishing of the fundamental structural constants in representation theory and algebraic geometry, such as the well known plethysm constants--or rather certain relaxed forms of these decision probelms--belong to the complexity class P. In this article, we suggest a plan for implementing the flip, i.e., for showing that these relaxed decision problems belong to P. This is based on the reduction of the preceding complexity-theoretic positive hypotheses to mathematical positivity hypotheses: specifically, to showing that there exist positive formulae--i.e. formulae with nonnegative coefficients--for the structural constants under consideration and certain functions associated with them. These turn out be intimately related to the similar positivity properties of the Kazhdan-Lusztig polynomials and the multiplicative structural constants of the canonical (global crystal) bases in the theory of Drinfeld-Jimbo quantum groups. The known proofs of these positivity properties depend on the Riemann hypothesis over finite fields and the related results. Thus the reduction here, in conjunction with the flip, in essence, says that the validity of the P vs. NP conjecture in characteristic zero is intimately linked to the Riemann hypothesis over finite fields and related problems. 
0704.00230	Two new basaltic asteroids in the Outer Main Belt?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. Duffard, F. Roig	 Abstract: The identification of basaltic asteroids in the asteroid Main Belt and the description of their surface mineralogy is necessary to understand the diversity in the collection of basaltic meteorites. Basaltic asteroids can be identified from their visible reflectance spectra and are classified as V-type in the usual taxonomies. In this work, we report visible spectroscopic observations of two candidate V-type asteroids, (7472) Kumakiri and (10537) 1991 RY16, located in the outer Main Belt (a > 2.85 UA). These candidate have been previously identified by Roig and Gil-Hutton (2006, Icarus 183, 411) using the Sloan Digital Sky Survey colors. The spectroscopic observations have been obtained at the Calar Alto Observatory, Spain, during observational runs in November and December 2006. The spectra of these two asteroids show the steep slope shortwards of 0.70 microns and the deep absorption feature longwards of 0.75 microns that are characteristic of V-type asteroids. However, the presence of a shallow but conspicuous absorption band around 0.65 microns opens some questions about the actual mineralogy of these two asteroids. Such band has never been observed before in basaltic asteroids with the intensity we detected it. We discuss the possibility for this shallow absorption feature to be caused by the presence of chromium on the asteroid surface. Our results indicate that, together with (1459) Magnya, asteroids (7472) Kumakiri and (10537) 1991 RY16 may be the only traces of basaltic material found up to now in the outer Main Belt. 
0704.00231	Interpolating and sampling sequences in finite Riemann surfaces	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Joaquim Ortega-Cerda	 Abstract: We provide a description of the interpolating and sampling sequences on a space of holomorphic functions with a uniform growth restriction defined on finite Riemann surfaces. 
0704.00232	New algebraic aspects of perturbative and non-perturbative Quantum Field  Theory	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Christoph Bergbauer, Dirk Kreimer	 Abstract: In this expository article we review recent advances in our understanding of the combinatorial and algebraic structure of perturbation theory in terms of Feynman graphs, and Dyson-Schwinger equations. Starting from Lie and Hopf algebras of Feynman graphs, perturbative renormalization is rephrased algebraically. The Hochschild cohomology of these Hopf algebras leads the way to Slavnov-Taylor identities and Dyson-Schwinger equations. We discuss recent progress in solving simple Dyson-Schwinger equations in the high energy sector using the algebraic machinery. Finally there is a short account on a relation to algebraic geometry and number theory: understanding Feynman integrals as periods of mixed (Tate) motives. 
0704.00233	Many-body interband tunneling as a witness for complex dynamics in the  Bose-Hubbard model	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Andrea Tomadin, Riccardo Mannella, Sandro Wimberger	 Abstract: A perturbative model is studied for the tunneling of many-particle states from the ground band to the first excited energy band, mimicking Landau-Zener decay for ultracold, spinless atoms in quasi-one dimensional optical lattices subjected to a tunable tilting force. The distributions of the computed tunneling rates provide an independent and experimentally accessible signature of the regular-chaotic transition in the strongly correlated many-body dynamics of the ground band. 
0704.00234	Comments on ``Are Swift Gamma-Ray Bursts consistent with the Ghirlanda  relation?", by Campana et al.(astro--ph/0703676)	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G. Ghirlanda (1), L. Nava (1,2), G. Ghisellini (1), C. Firmani (1,3) ((1) Osserv. Astr. di Brera, (2) Univ. degli Studi dell'Insubria, (3) U.N.A.M.)	 Abstract: In their recent paper, Campana et al. (2007) found that 5 bursts, among those detected by Swift, are outliers with respect to the E_peak-E_gamma ("Ghirlanda") correlation. We instead argue that they are not. 
0704.00235	The Determination of the Helicity of $W'$ Boson Couplings at the LHC	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Thomas G. Rizzo	 Abstract: Apart from its mass and width, the most important property of a new charged gauge boson, $W'$, is the helicity of its couplings to the SM fermions. Such particles are expected to exist in many extensions of the Standard Model. In this paper we explore the capability of the LHC to determine the $W'$ coupling helicity at low integrated luminosities in the $\ell +E_T^{miss}$ discovery channel. We find that measurements of the transverse mass distribution, reconstructed from this final state in the $W-W'$ interference region, provides the best determination of this quantity. To make such measurements requires integrated luminosities of $\sim 10(60) fb^{-1}$ assuming $M_{W'}=1.5(2.5)$ TeV and provided that the $W'$ couplings have Standard Model magnitude. This helicity determination can be further strengthened by the use of various discovery channel leptonic asymmetries, also measured in the same interference regime, but with higher integrated luminosities. 
0704.00236	Curvature flows in semi-Riemannian manifolds	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Claus Gerhardt	 Abstract: We prove that the limit hypersurfaces of converging curvature flows are stable, if the initial velocity has a weak sign, and give a survey of the existence and regularity results. 
0704.00237	Hydrodynamic and Spectral Simulations of HMXB Winds	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Christopher W. Mauche, Duane A. Liedahl, Shizuka Akiyama (Lawrence Livermore Nat'l Lab.), Tomasz Plewa (University of Chicago)	 Abstract: We describe preliminary results of a global model of the radiatively-driven photoionized wind and accretion flow of the high-mass X-ray binary Vela X-1. The full model combines FLASH hydrodynamic calculations, XSTAR photoionization calculations, HULLAC atomic data, and Monte Carlo radiation transport. We present maps of the density, temperature, velocity, and ionization parameter from a FLASH two-dimensional time-dependent simulation of Vela X-1, as well as maps of the emissivity distributions of the X-ray emission lines. 
0704.00238	Radio Astrometric Detection and Characterization of Extra-Solar Planets:  A White Paper Submitted to the NSF ExoPlanet Task Force	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Geoffrey C. Bower (Berkeley), Alberto Bolatto (Berkeley), Eric Ford (CfA, Florida), Paul Kalas (Berkeley), Jim Ulvestad (NRAO)	 Abstract: The extraordinary astrometric accuracy of radio interferometry creates an important and unique opportunity for the discovery and characterization of exo-planets. Currently, the Very Long Baseline Array can routinely achieve better than 100 microarcsecond accuracy, and can approach 10 microarcsecond with careful calibration. We describe here RIPL, the Radio Interferometric PLanet search, a new program with the VLBA and the Green Bank 100 m telescope that will survey 29 low-mass, active stars over 3 years with sub-Jovian planet mass sensitivity at 1 AU. An upgrade of the VLBA bandwidth will increase astrometric accuracy by an order of magnitude. Ultimately, the colossal collecting area of the Square Kilometer Array could push astrometric accuracy to 1 microarcsecond, making detection and characterizaiton of Earth mass planets possible. RIPL and other future radio astrometric planet searches occupy a unique volume in planet discovery and characterization parameter space. The parameter space of astrometric searches gives greater sensitivity to planets at large radii than radial velocity searches. For the VLBA and the expanded VLBA, the targets of radio astrometric surveys are by necessity nearby, low-mass, active stars, which cannot be studied efficiently through the radial velocity method, coronagraphy, or optical interferometry. For the SKA, detection sensitivity will extend to solar-type stars. Planets discovered through radio astrometric methods will be suitable for characterization through extreme adaptive optics. The complementarity of radio astrometric techniques with other methods demonstrates that radio astrometry can play an important role in the roadmap for exoplanet discovery and characterization. 
0704.00239	Interface dynamics of microscopic cavities in water	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Joachim Dzubiella	 Abstract: An analytical description of the interface motion of a collapsing nanometer-sized spherical cavity in water is presented by a modification of the Rayleigh-Plesset equation in conjunction with explicit solvent molecular dynamics simulations. Quantitative agreement is found between the two approaches for the time-dependent cavity radius $R(t)$ at different solvent conditions while in the continuum picture the solvent viscosity has to be corrected for curvature effects. The typical magnitude of the interface or collapse velocity is found to be given by the ratio of surface tension and fluid viscosity, $v\simeq\gamma/\eta$, while the curvature correction accelerates collapse dynamics on length scales below the equilibrium crossover scales ($\sim$1nm). The study offers a starting point for an efficient implicit modeling of water dynamics in aqueous nanoassembly and protein systems in nonequilibrium. 
0704.00240	Viscosity, Black Holes, and Quantum Field Theory	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:D. T. Son, A. O. Starinets	 Abstract: We review recent progress in applying the AdS/CFT correspondence to finite-temperature field theory. In particular, we show how the hydrodynamic behavior of field theory is reflected in the low-momentum limit of correlation functions computed through a real-time AdS/CFT prescription, which we formulate. We also show how the hydrodynamic modes in field theory correspond to the low-lying quasinormal modes of the AdS black p-brane metric. We provide a proof of the universality of the viscosity/entropy ratio within a class of theories with gravity duals and formulate a viscosity bound conjecture. Possible implications for real systems are mentioned. 
0704.00241	Superconducting states of the quasi-2D Holstein model: Effects of vertex  and non-local corrections	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:J.P.Hague	 Abstract: I investigate superconducting states in a quasi-2D Holstein model using the dynamical cluster approximation (DCA). The effects of spatial fluctuations (non-local corrections) are examined and approximations neglecting and incorporating lowest-order vertex corrections are computed. The approximation is expected to be valid for electron-phonon couplings of less than the bandwidth. The phase diagram and superconducting order parameter are calculated. Effects which can only be attributed to theories beyond Migdal--Eliashberg theory are present. In particular, the order parameter shows momentum dependence on the Fermi-surface with a modulated form and s-wave order is suppressed at half-filling. The results are discussed in relation to Hohenberg's theorem and the BCS approximation. 
0704.00242	Masers and star formation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Vincent L. Fish (NRAO)	 Abstract: Recent observational and theoretical advances concerning astronomical masers in star forming regions are reviewed. Major masing species are considered individually and in combination. Key results are summarized with emphasis on present science and future prospects. 
0704.00243	Renormalized quasiparticles in antiferromagnetic states of the Hubbard  model	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:J. Bauer, A.C. Hewson	 Abstract: We analyze the properties of the quasiparticle excitations of metallic antiferromagnetic states in a strongly correlated electron system. The study is based on dynamical mean field theory (DMFT) for the infinite dimensional Hubbard model with antiferromagnetic symmetry breaking. Self-consistent solutions of the DMFT equations are calculated using the numerical renormalization group (NRG). The low energy behavior in these results is then analyzed in terms of renormalized quasiparticles. The parameters for these quasiparticles are calculated directly from the NRG derived self-energy, and also from the low energy fixed point of the effective impurity. They are found to be in good agreement. We show that the main low energy features of the $\bf k$-resolved spectral density can be understood in terms of the quasiparticle picture. We also find that Luttinger's theorem is satisfied for the total electron number in the doped antiferromagnetic state. 
0704.00244	Comparison of exact-exchange calculations for solids in  current-spin-density- and spin-density-functional theory	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:S. Sharma (1,2), S. Pittalis (2), S. Kurth (2), S. Shallcross (3), J. K. Dewhurst (4), E. K. U. Gross (2)	 Abstract: The relative merits of current-spin-density- and spin-density-functional theory are investigated for solids treated within the exact-exchange-only approximation. Spin-orbit splittings and orbital magnetic moments are determined at zero external magnetic field. We find that for magnetic (Fe, Co and Ni) and non-magnetic (Si and Ge) solids, the exact-exchange current-spin-density functional approach does not significantly improve the accuracy of the corresponding spin-density functional results. 
0704.00245	One-loop MHV Rules and Pure Yang-Mills	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Andreas Brandhuber, Bill Spence, Gabriele Travaglini, Konstantinos Zoubos	 Abstract: It has been known for some time that the standard MHV diagram formulation of perturbative Yang-Mills theory is incomplete, as it misses rational terms in one-loop scattering amplitudes of pure Yang-Mills. We propose that certain Lorentz violating counterterms, when expressed in the field variables which give rise to standard MHV vertices, produce precisely these missing terms. These counterterms appear when Yang-Mills is treated with a regulator, introduced by Thorn and collaborators, which arises in worldsheet formulations of Yang-Mills theory in the lightcone gauge. As an illustration of our proposal, we show that a simple one-loop, two-point counterterm is the generating function for the infinite sequence of one-loop, all-plus helicity amplitudes in pure Yang-Mills, in complete agreement with known expressions. 
0704.00246	Fermi-liquid effects in the transresistivity in quantum Hall double  layers near $ν= 1/2 $	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Natalya A. Zimbovskaya	 Abstract: Here, we present theoretical studies of the temperature and magnetic field dependences of the Coulomb drag transresistivity between two parallel layers of two dimensional electron gases in quantum Hall regime near half filling of the lowest Landau level. It is shown that Fermi-liquid interactions between the relevant quasiparticles could give a significant effect on the transresistivity, providing its independence of the interlayer spacing for spacings taking on values reported in the experiments. Obtained results agree with the experimental evidence. 
0704.00247	Geometry of four-dimensional Killing spinors	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:S. L. Cacciatori, M. M. Caldarelli, D. Klemm, D. S. Mansi, D. Roest	 Abstract: The supersymmetric solutions of N=2, D=4 minimal ungauged and gauged supergravity are classified according to the fraction of preserved supersymmetry using spinorial geometry techniques. Subject to a reasonable assumption in the 1/2-supersymmetric time-like case of the gauged theory, we derive the complete form of all supersymmetric solutions. This includes a number of new 1/4- and 1/2-supersymmetric possibilities, like gravitational waves on bubbles of nothing in AdS_4. 
0704.00248	A Rigorous Time-Domain Analysis of Full--Wave Electromagnetic Cloaking  (Invisibility)	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Ricardo Weder	 Abstract: There is currently a great deal of interest in the theoretical and practical possibility of cloaking objects from the observation by electromagnetic waves. The basic idea of these invisibility devices \cite{glu1, glu2, le},\cite{pss1} is to use anisotropic {\it transformation media} whose permittivity and permeability $\var^{\lambda\nu}, \mu^{\lambda\nu}$, are obtained from the ones, $\var_0^{\lambda\nu}, \mu^{\lambda\nu}_0$, of isotropic media, by singular transformations of coordinates. In this paper we study electromagnetic cloaking in the time-domain using the formalism of time-dependent scattering theory. This formalism allows us to settle in an unambiguous way the mathematical problems posed by the singularities of the inverse of the permittivity and the permeability of the {\it transformation media} on the boundary of the cloaked objects. We write Maxwell's equations in Schr\"odinger form with the electromagnetic propagator playing the role of the Hamiltonian. We prove that the electromagnetic propagator outside of the cloaked objects is essentially self-adjoint. Moreover, the unique self-adjoint extension is unitarily equivalent to the electromagnetic propagator in the medium $\var_0^{\lambda\nu}, \mu^{\lambda\nu}_0$. Using this fact, and since the coordinate transformation is the identity outside of a ball, we prove that the scattering operator is the identity. Our results give a rigorous proof that the construction of \cite{glu1, glu2, le}, \cite{pss1} perfectly cloaks passive and active devices from observation by electromagnetic waves. Furthermore, we prove cloaking for general anisotropic materials. In particular, our results prove that it is possible to cloak objects inside general crystals. 
0704.00249	Non-perturbative conserving approximations and Luttinger's sum rule	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Jutta Ortloff, Matthias Balzer, Michael Potthoff	 Abstract: Weak-coupling conserving approximations can be constructed by truncations of the Luttinger-Ward functional and are well known as thermodynamically consistent approaches which respect macroscopic conservation laws as well as certain sum rules at zero temperature. These properties can also be shown for variational approximations that are generated within the framework of the self-energy-functional theory without a truncation of the diagram series. Luttinger's sum rule represents an exception. We analyze the conditions under which the sum rule holds within a non-perturbative conserving approximation. Numerical examples are given for a simple but non-trivial dynamical two-site approximation. The validity of the sum rule for finite Hubbard clusters and the consequences for cluster extensions of the dynamical mean-field theory are discussed. 
0704.00250	2D-MIT as self-doping of a Wigner-Mott insulator	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:S. Pankov, V. Dobrosavljevic	 Abstract: We consider an interaction-driven scenario for the two-dimensional metal-insulator transition in zero magnetic field (2D-MIT), based on melting the Wigner crystal through vacancy-interstitial pair formation. We show that the transition from the Wigner-Mott insulator to a heavy Fermi liquid emerges as an instability to self-doping, resembling conceptually the solid to normal liquid transition in He3. The resulting physical picture naturally explains many puzzling features of the 2D-MIT. 
0704.00251	Entanglement of Subspaces and Error Correcting Codes	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Gilad Gour, Nolan R. Wallach	 Abstract: We introduce the notion of entanglement of subspaces as a measure that quantify the entanglement of bipartite states in a randomly selected subspace. We discuss its properties and in particular we show that for maximally entangled subspaces it is additive. Furthermore, we show that maximally entangled subspaces can play an important role in the study of quantum error correction codes. We discuss both degenerate and non-degenerate codes and show that the subspace spanned by the logical codewords of a non-degenerate code is a 2k-totally (maximally) entangled subspace. As for non-degenerate codes, we provide a mathematical definition in terms of subspaces and, as an example, we analyze Shor's nine qubits code in terms of 22 mutually orthogonal subspaces. 
0704.00252	Does the present data on B_s - bar B_s mixing rule out a large  enhancement in the branching ratio of B_s --> mu+ mu- ?	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Ashutosh Kumar Alok, S. Uma Sankar	 Abstract: In this letter, we consider the constraints imposed by the recent measurement of B_s - bar B_s mixing on the new physics contribution to the rare decay B_s --> mu+ mu-. New physics in the form vector and axial-vector couplings is already severely constrained by the data on B --> (K,K*) mu+ mu-. Here, we show that B_s - bar B_s mixing data, together with the data on K0 - bar K0 mixing and K_L --> mu+ mu- decay rate, strongly constrain the scalar-pseudoscalar contribution to B_s --> mu+ mu-. We conclude that new physics can at best lead to a factor of 2 increase in the branching ratio of B_s --> mu+ mu- compared to its Standard Model expectation. 
0704.00253	The Spitzer c2d Survey of Large, Nearby, Interstellar Clouds VIII.  Serpens Observed with MIPS	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Paul M. Harvey, Luisa M. Rebull, Tim Brooke, William J. Spiesman, Nicholas Chapman, Tracy L. Huard, Neal J. Evans II, Lucas Cieza, Shih-Ping Lai, Lori E. Allen, Lee G. Mundy, Deborah L. Padgett, Anneila I. Sargent, Karl R. Stapelfeldt, Philip C. Myers, Ewine F. van Dishoeck, Geoffrey A. Blake, David W. Koerner	 Abstract: We present maps of 1.5 square degrees of the Serpens dark cloud at 24, 70, and 160\micron observed with the Spitzer Space Telescope MIPS Camera. More than 2400 compact sources have been extracted at 24um, nearly 100 at 70um, and 4 at 160um. We estimate completeness limits for our 24um survey from Monte Carlo tests with artificial sources inserted into the Spitzer maps. We compare source counts, colors, and magnitudes in the Serpens cloud to two reference data sets, a 0.50 deg^2 set on a low-extinction region near the dark cloud, and a 5.3 deg^2 subset of the SWIRE ELAIS N1 data that was processed through our pipeline. These results show that there is an easily identifiable population of young stellar object candidates in the Serpens Cloud that is not present in either of the reference data sets. We also show a comparison of visual extinction and cool dust emission illustrating a close correlation between the two, and find that the most embedded YSO candidates are located in the areas of highest visual extinction. 
0704.00254	Unravelling the sbottom spin at the CERN LHC	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Alexandre Alves, Oscar Eboli	 Abstract: Establishing that a signal of new physics is undoubtly supersymmetric requires not only the discovery of the supersymmetric partners but also probing their spins and couplings. We show that the sbottom spin can be probed at the CERN Large Hadron Collider using only angular correlations in sbottom pair production with subsequent decay of sbottoms into bottom quark plus the lightest neutralino, which allow us to distinguish a universal extra dimensional interpretation with a fermionic heavy bottom quark from supersymmetry with a bosonic bottom squark. We demonstrate that this channel provides a clear indication of the sbottom spin provided the sbottom production rate and branching ratio into bottom quark plus the lightest neutralino are sufficiently large to have a clear signal above Standard Model backgrounds. 
0704.00255	Modeling the three-point correlation function	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Felipe Marin (Chicago, KICP), Risa Wechsler (KIPAC, Stanford), Joshua Frieman (Chicago, KICP and Fermilab), Robert Nichol (ICG, Portsmouth)	 Abstract: We present new predictions for the galaxy three-point correlation function (3PCF) using high-resolution dissipationless cosmological simulations of a flat LCDM Universe which resolve galaxy-size halos and subhalos. We create realistic mock galaxy catalogs by assigning luminosities and colors to dark matter halos and subhalos, and we measure the reduced 3PCF as a function of luminosity and color in both real and redshift space. As galaxy luminosity and color are varied, we find small differences in the amplitude and shape dependence of the reduced 3PCF, at a level qualitatively consistent with recent measurements from the SDSS and 2dFGRS. We confirm that discrepancies between previous 3PCF measurements can be explained in part by differences in binning choices. We explore the degree to which a simple local bias model can fit the simulated 3PCF. The agreement between the model predictions and galaxy 3PCF measurements lends further credence to the straightforward association of galaxies with CDM halos and subhalos. 
0704.00256	Multi-spectral Observations of Lunar Occultations: I. Resolving The Dust  Shell Around AFGL 5440	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Paul M. Harvey, Andrew Oldag	 Abstract: We present observations and modeling of a lunar occultation of the dust-enshrouded carbon star AFGL 5440. The observations were made over a continuous range of wavelengths from 1 - 4um with a high-speed spectrophotometer designed expressly for this purpose. We find that the occultation fringes cannot be fit by any single-size model. We use the DUSTY radiative transfer code to model a circumstellar shell and fit both the observed occultation light curves and the spectral energy distribution described in the literature. We find a strong constraint on the inner radius of the dust shell, Tmax = 950 K +/- 50K, and optical depth at 5um of 0.5 +/- 0.1. The observations are best fit by models with a density gradient of r^-2 or the gradient derived by Ivezic & Elitzur for a radiatively driven hydrodynamic outflow. Our models cannot fit the observed IRAS 60um flux without assuming a substantial abundance of graphite or by assuming a substantially higher mass-loss rate in the past. 
0704.00257	Orbifold cohomology of abelian symplectic reductions and the case of  weighted projective spaces	Symplectic Geometry (math.SG)	Authors:Tara S. Holm	 Abstract: These notes accompany a lecture about the topology of symplectic (and other) quotients. The aim is two-fold: first to advertise the ease of computation in the symplectic category; and second to give an account of some new computations for weighted projective spaces. We start with a brief exposition of how orbifolds arise in the symplectic category, and discuss the techniques used to understand their topology. We then show how these results can be used to compute the Chen-Ruan orbifold cohomology ring of abelian symplectic reductions. We conclude by comparing the several rings associated to a weighted projective space. We make these computations directly, avoiding any mention of a stacky fan or of a labeled moment polytope. 
0704.00258	Correlation functions in the Non Perturbative Renormalization Group and  field expansion	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Diego Guerra, Ramon Mendez-Galain, Nicolas Wschebor	 Abstract: The usual procedure of including a finite number of vertices in Non Perturbative Renormalization Group equations in order to obtain $n$-point correlation functions at finite momenta is analyzed. This is done by exploiting a general method recently introduced which includes simultaneously all vertices although approximating their momentum dependence. The study is performed using the self-energy of the tridimensional scalar model at criticality. At least in this example, low order truncations miss quantities as the critical exponent $\eta$ by as much as 60%. However, if one goes to high order truncations the procedure seems to converge rapidly. 
0704.00259	Formation and Collisional Evolution of Kuiper Belt Objects	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Scott J. Kenyon, Benjamin C. Bromley, David P. O'Brien, Donald R. Davis	 Abstract: This chapter summarizes analytic theory and numerical calculations for the formation and collisional evolution of KBOs at 20--150 AU. We describe the main predictions of a baseline self-stirring model and show how dynamical perturbations from a stellar flyby or stirring by a giant planet modify the evolution. Although robust comparisons between observations and theory require better KBO statistics and more comprehensive calculations, the data are broadly consistent with KBO formation in a massive disk followed by substantial collisional grinding and dynamical ejection. However, there are important problems reconciling the results of coagulation and dynamical calculations. Contrasting our current understanding of the evolution of KBOs and asteroids suggests that additional observational constraints, such as the identification of more dynamical families of KBOs (like the 2003 EL61 family), would provide additional information on the relative roles of collisional grinding and dynamical ejection in the Kuiper Belt. The uncertainties also motivate calculations that combine collisional and dynamical evolution, a `unified' calculation that should give us a better picture of KBO formation and evolution. 
0704.00260	On Existence of Boundary Values of Polyharmonic Functions	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:M. L. Gorbachuk, S. M. Torba	 Abstract: In trigonometric series terms all polyharmonic functions inside the unit disk are described. For such functions it is proved the existence of their boundary values on the unit circle in the space of hyperfunctions. The necessary and sufficient conditions are presented for the boundary value to belong to certain subspaces of the space of hyperfunctions. 
0704.00261	Constraints on the Self-Interaction Cross-Section of Dark Matter from  Numerical Simulations of the Merging Galaxy Cluster 1E 0657-5	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Scott W. Randall, Maxim Markevitch, Douglas Clowe, Anthony H. Gonzalez, Marusa Bradac	 Abstract: (Abridged) We compare recent results from X-ray, strong lensing, weak lensing, and optical observations with numerical simulations of the merging galaxy cluster 1E0657-56. X-ray observations reveal a bullet-like subcluster with a prominent bow shock, while lensing results show that the positions of the total mass peaks are consistent with the centroids of the collisionless galaxies (and inconsistent with the X-ray brightness peaks). Previous studies, based on older observational datasets, have placed upper limits on the self-interaction cross-section of dark matter per unit mass, sigma/m, using simplified analytic techniques. In this work, we take advantage of new, higher-quality observational datasets by running N-body simulations of 1E0657-56 that include the effects of self-interacting dark matter, and comparing the results with observations. Furthermore, the recent data allow for a new independent method of constraining sigma/m, based on the non-observation of an offset between the bullet subcluster mass peak and galaxy centroid. This new method places an upper limit (68% confidence) of sigma/m < 1.25 cm^2/g. If we make the assumption that the subcluster and the main cluster had equal mass-to-light ratios prior to the merger, we derive our most stringent constraint of sigma/m < 0.7 cm^2/g, which comes from the consistency of the subcluster's observed mass-to-light ratio with the main cluster's, and with the universal cluster value, ruling out the possibility of a large fraction of dark matter particles being scattered away due to collisions. Our limit is a slight improvement over the previous result from analytic estimates, and rules out most of the 0.5 - 5cm^2/g range invoked to explain inconsistencies between the standard collisionless cold dark matter model and observations. 
0704.00262	Stringy Instantons at Orbifold Singularities	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Riccardo Argurio, Matteo Bertolini, Gabriele Ferretti, Alberto Lerda, Christoffer Petersson	 Abstract: We study the effects produced by D-brane instantons on the holomorphic quantities of a D-brane gauge theory at an orbifold singularity. These effects are not limited to reproducing the well known contributions of the gauge theory instantons but also generate extra terms in the superpotential or the prepotential. On these brane instantons there are some neutral fermionic zero-modes in addition to the ones expected from broken supertranslations. They are crucial in correctly reproducing effects which are dual to gauge theory instantons, but they may make some other interesting contributions vanish. We analyze how orientifold projections can remove these zero-modes and thus allow for new superpotential terms. These terms contribute to the dynamics of the effective gauge theory, for instance in the stabilization of runaway directions. 
0704.00263	Turbulent Diffusion of Lines and Circulations	Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)	Authors:Gregory L. Eyink	 Abstract: We study material lines and passive vectors in a model of turbulent flow at infinite-Reynolds number, the Kraichnan-Kazantsev ensemble of velocities that are white-noise in time and rough (Hoelder continuous) in space. It is argued that the phenomenon of ``spontaneous stochasticity'' generalizes to material lines and that conservation of circulations generalizes to a ``martingale property'' of the stochastic process of lines. 
0704.00264	Gluon Radiation of an Expanding Color Skyrmion in the Quark-Gluon Plasma	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Jian Dai	 Abstract: The density of states and energy spectrum of the gluon radiation are calculated for the color current of an expanding hydrodynamic skyrmion in the quark gluon plasma with a semiclassical method. Results are compared with those in literatures. 
0704.00265	REM near-IR and optical multiband observations of PKS2155-304 in 2005	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Dolcini, F. Farfanelli, S. Ciprini, A. Treves, S. Covino, G. Tosti, E. Pian, B. Sbarufatti, E. Molinari, G. Chincarini, F.M. Zerbi, G. Malaspina, P. Conconi, L. Nicastro, E. Palazzi, V. Testa, F. Vitali, L.A. Antonelli, J. Danziger, G. Tagliaferri, E. Meurs, S. Vergani, A. Fernandez-Soto, E. Distefano, G. Cutispoto, F. D'Alessio	 Abstract: Spectral variability is the main tool for constraining emission models of BL Lac objects. By means of systematic observations of the BL Lac prototype PKS 2155-304 in the infrared-optical band, we explore variability on the scales of months, days and hours. We made our observations with the robotic 60 cm telescope REM located at La Silla, Chile. VRIJHK filters were used. PKS 2155-304 was observed from May to December 2005. The wavelength interval explored, the total number of photometric points and the short integration time render our photometry substantially superior to previous ones for this source. On the basis of the intensity and colour we distinguish three different states of the source, each of duration of months, which include all those described in the literature. In particular, we report the highest state ever detected in the H band. The source varied by a factor of 4 in this band, much more than in the V band (a factor ~2). The source softened with increasing intensity, contrary to the general pattern observed in the UV-X-ray bands. On five nights of November we had nearly continuous monitoring for 2-3 hours. A variability episode with a time scale of ~24 h is well documented, a much more rapid flare with t=1-2 h, is also apparent, but is supported by relatively few points. 
0704.00266	Supernova Polarization and the Type IIn Classification	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jennifer L. Hoffman	 Abstract: While the members of the Type IIn category of supernovae are united by the presence of strong multicomponent Balmer emission lines in their spectra, they are quite heterogeneous with respect to other properties such as Balmer line profiles, light curves, strength of radio emission, and intrinsic brightness. We are now beginning to see variety among SNe IIn in their polarimetric characteristics as well, some but not all of which may be due to inclination angle effects. The increasing number of known "hybrid" SNe with IIn-like emission lines suggests that circumstellar material may be more common around all types of SNe than previously thought. Investigation of the correlations between spectropolarimetric signatures and other IIn attributes will help us address the question of classification of "interacting SNe" and the possibility of distinguishing different groups within the diverse IIn subclass. 
0704.00267	Near-Infrared Spectra of the Black Hole X-Ray Binary, A0620-00	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C.S. Froning, E.L. Robinson, M.A. Bitner	 Abstract: We present broadband NIR spectra of A0620-00 obtained with SpeX on the IRTF. The spectrum is characterized by a blue continuum on which are superimposed broad emission lines of HI and HeII and a host of narrower absorption lines of neutral metals and molecules. Spectral type standard star spectra scaled to the dereddened spectrum of A0620-00 in K exceed the A0620-00 spectrum in J and H for all stars of spectral type K7V or earlier, demonstrating that the donor star, unless later than K7V, cannot be the sole NIR flux source in A0620-00. In addition, the atomic absorption lines in the K3V spectrum are too weak with respect to those of A0620-00 even at 100% donor star contribution, restricting the spectral type of the donor star in A0620-00 to later than K3V. Comparison of the A0620-00 spectrum to scaled K star spectra indicates that the CO absorption features are significantly weaker in A0620-00 than in field dwarf stars. Fits of scaled model spectra of a Roche lobe-filling donor star to the spectrum of A0620-00 show that the best match to the CO absorption lines is obtained when the C abundance is reduced to [C/H] = -1.5. The donor star contribution in the H waveband is determined to be 82+-2%. Combined with previous published results from Froning & Robinson (2001) and Marsh et al. (1994), this gives a precise mass for the black hole in A0620-00 of M_BH = 9.7+-0.6 M_solar. 
0704.00268	Automated Generation of Layout and Control for Quantum Circuits	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Mark Whitney, Nemanja Isailovic, Yatish Patel, John Kubiatowicz	 Abstract: We present a computer-aided design flow for quantum circuits, complete with automatic layout and control logic extraction. To motivate automated layout for quantum circuits, we investigate grid-based layouts and show a performance variance of four times as we vary grid structure and initial qubit placement. We then propose two polynomial-time design heuristics: a greedy algorithm suitable for small, congestion-free quantum circuits and a dataflow-based analysis approach to placement and routing with implicit initial placement of qubits. Finally, we show that our dataflow-based heuristic generates better layouts than the state-of-the-art automated grid-based layout and scheduling mechanism in terms of latency and potential pipelinability, but at the cost of some area. 
0704.00269	Modeling the Spectral Energy Distribution and Variability of 3C 66A  during the WEBT campaign of 2003 -- 2004	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Joshi, M. Boettcher	 Abstract: The BL Lac object 3C 66A was observed in an extensive multiwavelength monitoring campaign from July 2003 till April 2004. The spectral energy distribution (SED) was measured over the entire electromagnetic spectrum, with flux measurements from radio to X-ray frequencies and upper limits in the very high energy (VHE) gamma-ray regime. Here, we use a time-dependent leptonic jet model to reproduce the SED and optical spectral variability observed during our multiwavelength campaign. Our model simulations could successfully reproduce the observed SED and optical light curves and predict an intrinsic cutoff value for the VHE gamma-ray emission at ~ 4 GeV. The effect of the optical depth due to the intergalactic infrared background radiation (IIBR) on the peak of the high-energy component of 3C 66A was found to be negligible. Also, the presence of a broad line region (BLR) in the case of 3C 66A may play an important role in the emission of gamma-ray photons when the emission region is very close to the central engine, but further out, the production mechanism of hard X-ray and gamma-ray photons becomes rapidly dominated by synchrotron self-Compton emission. We further discuss the possibility of an observable X-ray spectral variability pattern. The simulated results do not predict observable hysteresis patterns in the optical or soft X-ray regimes for major flares on multi-day time scales. 
0704.00270	The HARPS search for southern extra-solar planets. X. A m sin i = 11  Mearth planet around the nearby spotted M dwarf GJ 674	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:X. Bonfils, M. Mayor, X. Delfosse, T. Forveille, M. Gillon, C. Perrier, S. Udry, F. Bouchy, C. Lovis, F. Pepe, D. Queloz, N. C. Santos, J.-L. Bertaux	 Abstract: Context: How planet properties depend on stellar mass is a key diagnostic of planetary formation mechanisms. Aims: This motivates planet searches around stars which are significantly more massive or less massive than the Sun, and in particular our radial velocity search for planets around very-low mass stars. Methods: As part of that program, we obtained measurements of GJ 674, an M2.5 dwarf at d=4.5 pc, which have a dispersion much in excess of their internal errors. An intensive observing campaign demonstrates that the excess dispersion is due to two superimposed coherent signals, with periods of 4.69 and 35 days. Results: These data are well described by a 2-planet Keplerian model where each planet has a ~11 Mearth minimum mass. A careful analysis of the (low level) magnetic activity of GJ 674 however demonstrates that the 35-day period coincides with the stellar rotation period. This signal therefore originates in a spot inhomogeneity modulated by stellar rotation. The 4.69-day signal on the other hand is caused by a bona-fide planet, GJ 674b. Conclusion: Its detection adds to the growing number of Neptune-mass planets around M-dwarfs, and reinforces the emerging conclusion that this mass domain is much more populated than the jovian mass range. We discuss the metallicity distributions of M dwarf with and without planets and find a low 11% probability that they are drawn from the same parent distribution. Moreover, we find tentative evidence that the host star metallicity correlates with the total mass of their planetary system. 
0704.00271	An individual based model with global competition interaction:  fluctuations effects in pattern formation	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:E. Brigatti, V. Schwammle, Minos A. Neto	 Abstract: We present some numerical results obtained from a simple individual based model that describes clustering of organisms caused by competition. Our aim is to show how, even when a deterministic description developed for continuum models predicts no pattern formation, an individual based model displays well defined patterns, as a consequence of fluctuations effects caused by the discrete nature of the interacting agents. 
0704.00272	A Comparison between Anomalous 6-cm H$_2$CO Absorption and CO(1-0)  Emission in the L1204/S140	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Monica Ivette Rodriguez, Tommy Wiklind, Ronald J. Allen, Vladimir Escalante, Laurent Loinard	 Abstract: We report observations of the dust cloud L1204 with the Onsala 25-m telescope in the 6 cm (1$_{11}-1_{10}$) transition of \htco. The observed region includes the S140 H${\alpha}$ arc. This spectral line is seen here in absorption against the cosmic microwave background, indicating the presence of widespread warm molecular gas at intermediate densities. Overall, the distributions of H$_2$CO and CO (taken from the literature) are fairly similar, though significant differences exist at small scales. Most notably, while the CO peak is nearly coincident with the S140 H${\alpha}$ arc, the maximum H$_2$CO absorption is clearly separated from it by a full 10$'$ beam ($\sim$ 3 pc). We argue that these differences result from differing abundances and excitation requirements. The CO(1-0) line is more optically thick and more biased towards warm gas than the H$_2$CO 6 cm line. On the other hand, formaldehyde is more easily photodissociated and is, therefore, a poorer tracer of the molecular gas located immediately behind Photon Dominated Regions. 
0704.00273	Dimers on surface graphs and spin structures. II	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:David Cimasoni, Nicolai Reshetikhin	 Abstract: In a previous paper, we showed how certain orientations of the edges of a graph G embedded in a closed oriented surface S can be understood as discrete spin structures on S. We then used this correspondence to give a geometric proof of the Pfaffian formula for the partition function of the dimer model on G. In the present article, we generalize these results to the case of compact oriented surfaces with boundary. We also show how the operations of cutting and gluing act on discrete spin structures and how they change the partition function. These operations allow to reformulate the dimer model as a quantum field theory on surface graphs. 
0704.00274	New version announcement for TaylUR, an arbitrary-order diagonal  automatic differentiation package for Fortran 95	Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)	Authors:Georg M. von Hippel	 Abstract: We present a new version of TaylUR, a Fortran 95 module to automatically compute the numerical values of a complex-valued function's derivatives with respect to several variables up to an arbitrary order in each variable, but excluding mixed derivatives. The new version fixes a potentially serious bug in the code for exponential-related functions that could corrupt the imaginary parts of derivatives, as well as being compatible with a wider range of compilers. 
0704.00275	Mapping radii of metric spaces	Metric Geometry (math.MG)	Authors:George M. Bergman (U.C.Berkeley)	 Abstract: It is known that every closed curve of length \leq 4 in R^n (n>0) can be surrounded by a sphere of radius 1, and that this is the best bound. Letting S denote the circle of circumference 4, with the arc-length metric, we here express this fact by saying that the "mapping radius" of S in R^n is 1. Tools are developed for estimating the mapping radius of a metric space X in a metric space Y. In particular, it is shown that for X a bounded metric space, the supremum of the mapping radii of X in all convex subsets of normed metric spaces is equal to the infimum of the sup norms of all convex linear combinations of the functions d(x,-): X --> R (x\in X). Several explicit mapping radii are calculated, and open questions noted. 
0704.00276	A New Model For The Loop-I (The North Polar Spur) Region	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Wolleben	 Abstract: The North Polar Spur (NPS) is the brightest filament of Loop I, a large circular feature in the radio continuum sky. In this paper, a model consisting of two synchrotron emitting shells is presented that reproduces large-scale structures revealed by recent polarization surveys. The polarized emission of the NPS is reproduced by one of these shells. The other shell, which passes close to the Sun, gives rise to polarized emission towards the Galactic poles. It is proposed that X-ray emission seen towards the NPS is produced by interaction of the two shells. Two OB-associations coincide with the centers of the shells. A formation scenario of the Loop I region is suggested. 
0704.00277	Leray numbers of projections and a topological Helly type theorem	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Gil Kalai, Roy Meshulam	 Abstract: Let X be a simplicial complex on the vertex set V. The rational Leray number L(X) of X is the minimal d such that the rational reduced homology of any induced subcomplex of X vanishes in dimensions d and above. Let \pi be a simplicial map from X to a simplex Y, such that the cardinality of the preimage of any point in |Y| is at most r. It is shown that L(\pi(X)) \leq r L(X)+r-1. One consequence is a topological extension of a Helly type result of Amenta. 
0704.00278	q-Deformed spin foam models of quantum gravity	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Igor Khavkine, J. Daniel Christensen	 Abstract: We numerically study Barrett-Crane models of Riemannian quantum gravity. We have extended the existing numerical techniques to handle q-deformed models and arbitrary space-time triangulations. We present and interpret expectation values of a few selected observables for each model, including a spin-spin correlation function which gives insight into the behaviour of the models. We find the surprising result that, as the deformation parameter q goes to 1 through roots of unity, the limit is discontinuous. 
0704.00279	HI velocity dispersion in NGC 1058	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. O. Petric, M. P. Rupen	 Abstract: We present excellent resolution and high sensitivity Very Large Array (VLA) observations of the 21cm HI line emission from the face-on galaxy NGC 1058, providing the first reliable study of the HI profile shapes throughout the entire disk of an external galaxy. Our observations show an intriguing picture of the interstellar medium; throughout this galaxy velocity-- dispersions range between 4 to 15 km/sec but are not correlated with star formation, stars or the gaseous spiral arms. The velocity dispersions decrease with radius, but this global trend has a large scatter as there are several isolated, resolved regions of high dispersion. The decline of star light with radius is much steeper than that of the velocity dispersions or that of the energy in the gas motions. 
0704.00280	Common Envelope Evolution Redux	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ronald F. Webbink (University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign)	 Abstract: Common envelopes form in dynamical time scale mass exchange, when the envelope of a donor star engulfs a much denser companion, and the core of the donor plus the dense companion star spiral inward through this dissipative envelope. As conceived by Paczynski and Ostriker, this process must be responsible for the creation of short-period binaries with degenerate components, and, indeed, it has proven capable of accounting for short-period binaries containing one white dwarf component. However, attempts to reconstruct the evolutionary histories of close double white dwarfs have proven more problematic, and point to the need for enhanced systemic mass loss, either during the close of the first, slow episode of mass transfer that produced the first white dwarf, or during the detached phase preceding the final, common envelope episode. The survival of long-period interacting binaries with massive white dwarfs, such as the recurrent novae T CrB and RS Oph, also presents interpretative difficulties for simple energetic treatments of common envelope evolution. Their existence implies that major terms are missing from usual formulations of the energy budget for common envelope evolution. The most plausible missing energy term is the energy released by recombination in the common envelope, and, indeed, a simple reformulation the energy budget explicitly including recombination resolves this issue. 
0704.00281	The Source of Turbulence in Astrophysical Disks: An Ill-posed Problem.	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Denis Richard	 Abstract: An critical overview of the current state of research in turbulence in astrophysical disks. 
0704.00282	On Punctured Pragmatic Space-Time Codes in Block Fading Channel	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Samuele Bandi, Luca Stabellini, Andrea Conti, Velio Tralli	 Abstract: This paper considers the use of punctured convolutional codes to obtain pragmatic space-time trellis codes over block-fading channel. We show that good performance can be achieved even when puncturation is adopted and that we can still employ the same Viterbi decoder of the convolutional mother code by using approximated metrics without increasing the complexity of the decoding operations. 
0704.00283	On the Markov trace for Temperley--Lieb algebras of type $E_n$	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:R.M. Green	 Abstract: We show that there is a unique Markov trace on the tower of Temperley--Lieb type quotients of Hecke algebras of Coxeter type $E_n$ (for all $n \geq 6$). We explain in detail how this trace may be computed easily using tom Dieck's calculus of diagrams. As applications, we show how to use the trace to show that the diagram representation is faithful, and to compute leading coefficients of certain Kazhdan--Lusztig polynomials. 
0704.00284	Second Order Perturbative Calculation of Quasinormal Modes of  Schwarzschild Black Holes	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Hsien-chung Kao	 Abstract: We analytically calculate to second order the correction to the asymptotic form of quasinormal frequencies of four dimensional Schwarzschild black holes based on the monodromy analysis proposed by Motl and Neitzke. Our results are in good agreement with those obtained from numerical calculation. 
0704.00285	Epitaxial graphene	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Walt A. de Heer, Claire Berger, Xiaosong Wu, Phillip N. First, Edward H. Conrad, Xuebin Li, Tianbo Li, Michael Sprinkle, Joanna Hass, Marcin L. Sadowski, Marek Potemski, Gerard Martinez	 Abstract: Graphene multilayers are grown epitaxially on single crystal silicon carbide. This system is composed of several graphene layers of which the first layer is electron doped due to the built-in electric field and the other layers are essentially undoped. Unlike graphite the charge carriers show Dirac particle properties (i.e. an anomalous Berry's phase, weak anti-localization and square root field dependence of the Landau level energies). Epitaxial graphene shows quasi-ballistic transport and long coherence lengths; properties which may persists above cryogenic temperatures. Paradoxically, in contrast to exfoliated graphene, the quantum Hall effect is not observed in high mobility epitaxial graphene. It appears that the effect is suppressed due to absence of localized states in the bulk of the material.Epitaxial graphene can be patterned using standard lithography methods and characterized using a wide array of techniques. These favorable features indicate that interconnected room temperature ballistic devices may be feasible for low dissipation high-speed nanoelectronics. 
0704.00286	Mathematics of thermoacoustic tomography	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Peter Kuchment, Leonid Kunyansky	 Abstract: The paper presents a survey of mathematical problems, techniques, and challenges arising in the Thermoacoustic and Photoacoustic Tomography. 
0704.00287	Search for Very High Energy Emission from Gamma-Ray Bursts using Milagro	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Pablo M. Saz Parkinson (Milagro Collaboration)	 Abstract: Gamma-Ray Bursts (GRBs) have been detected at GeV energies by EGRET and models predict emission at > 100 GeV. Milagro is a wide field (2 sr) high duty cycle (> 90 %) ground based water Cherenkov detector that records extensive air showers in the energy range 100 GeV to 100 TeV. We have searched for very high energy emission from a sample of 106 gamma-ray bursts (GRB) detected since the beginning of 2000 by BATSE, BeppoSax, HETE-2, INTEGRAL, Swift or the IPN. No evidence for emission from any of the bursts has been found and we present upper limits from these bursts. 
0704.00288	Specific heat and bimodality in canonical and grand canonical versions  of the thermodynamic model	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:G. Chaudhuri, S. Das Gupta	 Abstract: We address two issues in the thermodynamic model for nuclear disassembly. Surprisingly large differences in results for specific heat were seen in predictions from the canonical and grand canonical ensembles when the nuclear system passes from liquid-gas co-existence to the pure gas phase. We are able to pinpoint and understand the reasons for such and other discrepancies when they appear. There is a subtle but important difference in the physics addressed in the two models. In particular if we reformulate the parameters in the canonical model to better approximate the physics addressed in the grand canonical model, calculations for observables converge. Next we turn to the issue of bimodality in the probability distribution of the largest fragment in both canonical and grand canonical ensembles. We demonstrate that this distribution is very closely related to average multiplicities. The relationship of the bimodal distribution to phase transition is discussed. 
0704.00289	Vortex proliferation in the Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless regime on a  two-dimensional lattice of Bose-Einstein condensates	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:V. Schweikhard, S. Tung, E. A. Cornell	 Abstract: We observe the proliferation of vortices in the Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless regime on a two-dimensional array of Josephson-coupled Bose-Einstein condensates. As long as the Josephson (tunneling) energy J exceeds the thermal energy T, the array is vortex-free. With decreasing J/T, vortices appear in the system in ever greater numbers. We confirm thermal activation as the vortex formation mechanism and obtain information on the size of bound vortex pairs as J/T is varied. 
0704.00290	The core binary fractions of star clusters from realistic simulations	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jarrod R. Hurley, Sverre J. Aarseth, Michael M. Shara	 Abstract: We investigate the evolution of binary fractions in star clusters using N-body models of up to 100000 stars. Primordial binary frequencies in these models range from 5% to 50%. Simulations are performed with the NBODY4 code and include a full mass spectrum of stars, stellar evolution, binary evolution and the tidal field of the Galaxy. We find that the overall binary fraction of a cluster almost always remains close to the primordial value, except at late times when a cluster is near dissolution. A critical exception occurs in the central regions where we observe a marked increase in binary fraction with time -- a simulation starting with 100000 stars and 5% binaries reached a core binary frequency as high as 40% at the end of the core-collapse phase (occurring at 16 Gyr with ~20000 stars remaining). Binaries are destroyed in the core by a variety of processes as a cluster evolves, but the combination of mass-segregation and creation of new binaries in exchange interactions produces the observed increase in relative number. We also find that binaries are cycled into and out of cluster cores in a manner that is analogous to convection in stars. For models of 100000 stars we show that the evolution of the core-radius up to the end of the initial phase of core-collapse is not affected by the exact value of the primordial binary frequency (for frequencies of 10% or less). We discuss the ramifications of our results for the likely primordial binary content of globular clusters. 
0704.00291	Approaching the Heisenberg limit in an atom laser	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:M. Jeppesen, J. Dugué, G. R. Dennis, M. T. Johnsson, C. Figl, N. P. Robins, J. D. Close	 Abstract: We present experimental and theoretical results showing the improved beam quality and reduced divergence of an atom laser produced by an optical Raman transition, compared to one produced by an RF transition. We show that Raman outcoupling can eliminate the diverging lens effect that the condensate has on the outcoupled atoms. This substantially improves the beam quality of the atom laser, and the improvement may be greater than a factor of ten for experiments with tight trapping potentials. We show that Raman outcoupling can produce atom lasers whose quality is only limited by the wavefunction shape of the condensate that produces them, typically a factor of 1.3 above the Heisenberg limit. 
0704.00292	A practical Seedless Infrared-Safe Cone jet algorithm	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Gavin P. Salam, Gregory Soyez	 Abstract: Current cone jet algorithms, widely used at hadron colliders, take event particles as seeds in an iterative search for stable cones. A longstanding infrared (IR) unsafety issue in such algorithms is often assumed to be solvable by adding extra `midpoint' seeds, but actually is just postponed to one order higher in the coupling. A proper solution is to switch to an exact seedless cone algorithm, one that provably identifies all stable cones. The only existing approach takes N 2^N time to find jets among N particles, making it unusable at hadron level. This can be reduced to N^2 ln(N) time, leading to code (SISCone) whose speed is similar to that of public midpoint implementations. Monte Carlo tests provide a strong cross-check of an analytical proof of the IR safety of the new algorithm, and the absence of any 'R_{sep}' issue implies a good practical correspondence between parton and hadron levels. Relative to a midpoint cone, the use of an IR safe seedless algorithm leads to modest changes for inclusive jet spectra, mostly through reduced sensitivity to the underlying event, and significant changes for some multi-jet observables. 
0704.00293	Isospin breaking in the yield of heavy meson pairs in e+e- annihilation  near threshold	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:S. Dubynskiy, A. Le Yaouanc, L. Oliver, J.-C. Raynal, M.B. Voloshin	 Abstract: We revisit the problem of interplay between the strong and the Coulomb interaction in the charged-to-neutral yield ratio for $B {\bar B}$ and $D {\bar D}$ pairs near their respective thresholds in $e^+e^-$ annihilation. We consider here a realistic situation with a resonant interaction in the isospin I=0 channel and a nonresonant strong scattering amplitude in the I=1 state. We find that the yield ratio has a smooth behavior depending on the scattering phase in the I=1 channel. The same approach is also applicable to the $K {\bar K}$ production at the $\phi(1020)$ resonance, where the Coulomb effect in the charged-to-neutral yield ratio is generally sensitive to the scattering phases in both the isoscalar and the isovector channels. Furthermore, we apply the same approach to the treatment of the effect of the isotopic mass difference between the charged and neutral mesons and argue that the strong-scattering effects generally result in a modification to the pure kinematical effect of this mass difference. 
0704.00294	QED x QCD Resummation and Shower/ME Matching for LHC Physics	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:B.F.L. Ward, S.A. Yost	 Abstract: We present the theory of QED x QCD resummation and its interplay with shower/matrix element matching in precision LHC physics scenarios. We illustrate the theory using single heavy gauge boson production at hadron colliders. 
0704.00295	On the number of topological types occurring in a parametrized family of  arrangements	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Saugata Basu	 Abstract: Let ${\mathcal S}(\R)$ be an o-minimal structure over $\R$, $T \subset \R^{k_1+k_2+\ell}$ a closed definable set, and $$ \displaylines{\pi_1: \R^{k_1+k_2+\ell}\to \R^{k_1 + k_2}, \pi_2: \R^{k_1+k_2+\ell}\to \R^{\ell}, \ \pi_3: \R^{k_1 + k_2} \to \R^{k_2}} $$ the projection maps. For any collection ${\mathcal A} = \{A_1,...,A_n\}$ of subsets of $\R^{k_1+k_2}$, and $\z \in \R^{k_2}$, let $\A_\z$ denote the collection of subsets of $\R^{k_1}$, $\{A_{1,\z},..., A_{n,\z}\}$, where $A_{i,\z} = A_i \cap \pi_3^{-1}(\z), 1 \leq i \leq n$. We prove that there exists a constant $C = C(T) > 0,$ such that for any family ${\mathcal A} = \{A_1,...,A_n\}$ of definable sets, where each $A_i = \pi_1(T \cap \pi_2^{-1}(\y_i))$, for some $\y_i \in \R^{\ell}$, the number of distinct stable homotopy types of $\A_\z, \z \in \R^{k_2}$, is bounded by $ \displaystyle{C \cdot n^{(k_1+1)k_2},} $ while the number of distinct homotopy types is bounded by $ \displaystyle{C \cdot n^{(k_1+3)k_2}.} $ This generalizes to the general o-minimal setting, bounds of the same type proved in \cite{BV} for semi-algebraic and semi-Pfaffian families. One main technical tool used in the proof of the above results, is a topological comparison theorem which might be of independent interest in the study of arrangements. 
0704.00296	Generalized Twistor Transform And Dualities, With A New Description of  Particles With Spin, Beyond Free and Massless	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Itzhak Bars, Bora Orcal	 Abstract: A generalized twistor transform for spinning particles in 3+1 dimensions is constructed that beautifully unifies many types of spinning systems by mapping them to the same twistor, thus predicting an infinite set of duality relations among spinning systems with different Hamiltonians. Usual 1T-physics is not equipped to explain the duality relationships and unification between these systems. We use 2T-physics in 4+2 dimensions to uncover new properties of twistors, and expect that our approach will prove to be useful for practical applications as well as for a deeper understanding of fundamental physics. Unexpected structures for a new description of spinning particles emerge. A unifying symmetry SU(2,3) that includes conformal symmetry SU(2,2)=SO(4,2) in the massless case, turns out to be a fundamental property underlying the dualities of a large set of spinning systems, including those that occur in high spin theories. This may lead to new forms of string theory backgrounds as well as to new methods for studying various corners of M theory. In this paper we present the main concepts, and in a companion paper we give other details. 
0704.00297	Remnant evolution after a carbon-oxygen white dwarf merger	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Sung-Chul Yoon, Philipp Podsiadlowski, Stephan Rosswog	 Abstract: We systematically explore the evolution of the merger of two carbon-oxygen (CO) white dwarfs. The dynamical evolution of a 0.9 Msun + 0.6 Msun CO white dwarf merger is followed by a three-dimensional SPH simulation. We use an elaborate prescription in which artificial viscosity is essentially absent, unless a shock is detected, and a much larger number of SPH particles than earlier calculations. Based on this simulation, we suggest that the central region of the merger remnant can, once it has reached quasi-static equilibrium, be approximated as a differentially rotating CO star, which consists of a slowly rotating cold core and a rapidly rotating hot envelope surrounded by a centrifugally supported disc. We construct a model of the CO remnant that mimics the results of the SPH simulation using a one-dimensional hydrodynamic stellar evolution code and then follow its secular evolution. The stellar evolution models indicate that the growth of the cold core is controlled by neutrino cooling at the interface between the core and the hot envelope, and that carbon ignition in the envelope can be avoided despite high effective accretion rates. This result suggests that the assumption of forced accretion of cold matter that was adopted in previous studies of the evolution of double CO white dwarf merger remnants may not be appropriate. Our results imply that at least some products of double CO white dwarfs merger may be considered good candidates for the progenitors of Type Ia supernovae. In this case, the characteristic time delay between the initial dynamical merger and the eventual explosion would be ~10^5 yr. (Abridged). 
0704.00298	Direct Theorems in the Theory of Approximation of the Banach Space  Vectors by Entire Vectors of Exponential Type	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Ya. Grushka, S. Torba	 Abstract: For an arbitrary operator A on a Banach space X which is a generator of C_0-group with certain growth condition at the infinity, the direct theorems on connection between the smoothness degree of a vector $x\in X$ with respect to the operator A, the order of convergence to zero of the best approximation of x by exponential type entire vectors for the operator A, and the k-module of continuity are given. Obtained results allows to acquire Jackson-type inequalities in many classic spaces of periodic functions and weighted $L_p$ spaces. 
0704.00299	Parametrized Post-Newtonian Expansion of Chern-Simons Gravity	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Stephon Alexander, Nicolas Yunes	 Abstract: We investigate the weak-field, post-Newtonian expansion to the solution of the field equations in Chern-Simons gravity with a perfect fluid source. In particular, we study the mapping of this solution to the parameterized post-Newtonian formalism to 1 PN order in the metric. We find that the PPN parameters of Chern-Simons gravity are identical to those of general relativity, with the exception of the inclusion of a new term that is proportional to the Chern-Simons coupling parameter and the curl of the PPN vector potentials. We also find that the new term is naturally enhanced by the non-linearity of spacetime and we provide a physical interpretation for it. By mapping this correction to the gravito-electro-magnetic framework, we study the corrections that this new term introduces to the acceleration of point particles and the frame-dragging effect in gyroscopic precession. We find that the Chern-Simons correction to these classical predictions could be used by current and future experiments to place bounds on intrinsic parameters of Chern-Simons gravity and, thus, string theory. 
0704.00300	Scaling of Resistance and Electron Mean Free Path of Single-Walled  Carbon Nanotubes	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Meninder Purewal, Byung Hee Hong, Anirudhh Ravi, Bhupesh Chandra, James Hone, Philip Kim	 Abstract: We present an experimental investigation on the scaling of resistance in individual single walled carbon nanotube devices with channel lengths that vary four orders of magnitude on the same sample. The electron mean free path is obtained from the linear scaling of resistance with length at various temperatures. The low temperature mean free path is determined by impurity scattering, while at high temperature the mean free path decreases with increasing temperature, indicating that it is limited by electron-phonon scattering. An unusually long mean free path at room temperature has been experimentally confirmed. Exponentially increasing resistance with length at extremely long length scales suggests anomalous localization effects. 
0704.00301	Differential Recursion and Differentially Algebraic Functions	Computational Complexity (cs.CC)	Authors:Akitoshi Kawamura	 Abstract: Moore introduced a class of real-valued "recursive" functions by analogy with Kleene's formulation of the standard recursive functions. While his concise definition inspired a new line of research on analog computation, it contains some technical inaccuracies. Focusing on his "primitive recursive" functions, we pin down what is problematic and discuss possible attempts to remove the ambiguity regarding the behavior of the differential recursion operator on partial functions. It turns out that in any case the purported relation to differentially algebraic functions, and hence to Shannon's model of analog computation, fails. 
0704.00302	Spline Single-Index Prediction Model	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Li Wang, Lijian Yang	 Abstract: For the past two decades, single-index model, a special case of projection pursuit regression, has proven to be an efficient way of coping with the high dimensional problem in nonparametric regression. In this paper, based on weakly dependent sample, we investigate the single-index prediction (SIP) model which is robust against deviation from the single-index model. The single-index is identified by the best approximation to the multivariate prediction function of the response variable, regardless of whether the prediction function is a genuine single-index function. A polynomial spline estimator is proposed for the single-index prediction coefficients, and is shown to be root-n consistent and asymptotically normal. An iterative optimization routine is used which is sufficiently fast for the user to analyze large data of high dimension within seconds. Simulation experiments have provided strong evidence that corroborates with the asymptotic theory. Application of the proposed procedure to the rive flow data of Iceland has yielded superior out-of-sample rolling forecasts. 
0704.00303	Measurement of the Aerosol Phase Function at the Pierre Auger  Observatory	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S.Y. BenZvi, B.M. Connolly, J.A.J. Matthews, M. Prouza, E.F. Visbal, S. Westerhoff	 Abstract: Air fluorescence detectors measure the energy of ultra-high energy cosmic rays by collecting fluorescence light emitted from nitrogen molecules along the extensive air shower cascade. To ensure a reliable energy determination, the light signal needs to be corrected for atmospheric effects, which not only attenuate the signal, but also produce a non-negligible background component due to scattered Cherenkov light and multiple-scattered light. The correction requires regular measurements of the aerosol attenuation length and the aerosol phase function, defined as the probability of light scattered in a given direction. At the Pierre Auger Observatory in Malargue, Argentina, the phase function is measured on an hourly basis using two Aerosol Phase Function (APF) light sources. These sources direct a UV light beam across the field of view of the fluorescence detectors; the phase function can be extracted from the image of the shots in the fluorescence detector cameras. This paper describes the design, current status, standard operation procedure, and performance of the APF system at the Pierre Auger Observatory. 
0704.00304	The World as Evolving Information	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Carlos Gershenson	 Abstract: This paper discusses the benefits of describing the world as information, especially in the study of the evolution of life and cognition. Traditional studies encounter problems because it is difficult to describe life and cognition in terms of matter and energy, since their laws are valid only at the physical scale. However, if matter and energy, as well as life and cognition, are described in terms of information, evolution can be described consistently as information becoming more complex. The paper presents eight tentative laws of information, valid at multiple scales, which are generalizations of Darwinian, cybernetic, thermodynamic, psychological, philosophical, and complexity principles. These are further used to discuss the notions of life, cognition and their evolution. 
0704.00305	Polymerization Force Driven Buckling of Microtubule Bundles Determines  the Wavelength of Patterns Formed in Tubulin Solutions	Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)	Authors:Yongxing Guo, Yifeng Liu, Jay X. Tang, James M. Valles Jr	 Abstract: We present a model for the spontaneous formation of a striated pattern in polymerizing microtubule solutions. It describes the buckling of a single microtubule (MT) bundle within an elastic network formed by other similarly aligned and buckling bundles and unaligned MTs. Phase contrast and polarization microscopy studies of the temporal evolution of the pattern imply that the polymerization of MTs within the bundles creates the driving compressional force. Using the measured rate of buckling, the established MT force-velocity curve and the pattern wavelength, we obtain reasonable estimates for the MT bundle bending rigidity and the elastic constant of the network. The analysis implies that the bundles buckle as solid rods. 
0704.00306	Neutron Inelastic Scattering Processes as Background for Double-Beta  Decay Experiments	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:D.-M. Mei, S.R. Elliott, A. Hime, V. Gehman, K. Kazkaz	 Abstract: We investigate several Pb$(n,n'\gamma$) and Ge$(n,n'\gamma$) reactions. We measure $\gamma$-ray production from Pb$(n,n'\gamma$) reactions that can be a significant background for double-beta decay experiments which use lead as a massive inner shield. Particularly worrisome for Ge-based double-beta decay experiments are the 2041-keV and 3062-keV $\gamma$ rays produced via Pb$(n,n'\gamma$). The former is very close to the ^{76}Ge double-beta decay endpoint energy and the latter has a double escape peak energy near the endpoint. Excitation $\gamma$-ray lines from Ge$(n,n'\gamma$) reactions are also observed. We consider the contribution of such backgrounds and their impact on the sensitivity of next-generation searches for neutrinoless double-beta decay using enriched germanium detectors. 
0704.00307	Periodic accretion from a circumbinary disk in the young binary UZ Tau E	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Eric L. N. Jensen (1), Saurav Dhital (1,2), Keivan G. Stassun (2), Jenny Patience (3), William Herbst (4), Frederick M. Walter (5), Michal Simon (5), Gibor Basri (6); (1 - Swarthmore College; 2 - Vanderbilt; 3 - Caltech; 4 - Wesleyan University; 5 - SUNY Stony Brook; 6 - UC Berkeley)	 Abstract: Close pre-main-sequence binary stars are expected to clear central holes in their protoplanetary disks, but the extent to which material can flow from the circumbinary disk across the gap onto the individual circumstellar disks has been unclear. In binaries with eccentric orbits, periodic perturbation of the outer disk is predicted to induce mass flow across the gap, resulting in accretion that varies with the binary period. This accretion may manifest itself observationally as periodic changes in luminosity. Here we present a search for such periodic accretion in the pre-main-sequence spectroscopic binary UZ Tau E. We present BVRI photometry spanning three years; we find that the brightness of UZ Tau E is clearly periodic, with a best-fit period of 19.16 +/- 0.04 days. This is consistent with the spectroscopic binary period of 19.13 days, refined here from analysis of new and existing radial velocity data. The brightness of UZ Tau E shows significant random variability, but the overall periodic pattern is a broad peak in enhanced brightness, spanning more than half the binary orbital period. The variability of the H-alpha line is not as clearly periodic, but given the sparseness of the data, some periodic component is not ruled out. The photometric variations are in good agreement with predictions from simulations of binaries with orbital parameters similar to those of UZ Tau E, suggesting that periodic accretion does occur from circumbinary disks, replenishing the inner disks and possibly extending the timescale over which they might form planets. 
0704.00308	Effect of node deleting on network structure	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Ke Deng, Heping Zhao, Dejun Li	 Abstract: The ever-increasing knowledge of the structure of various real-world networks has uncovered their complex multi-mechanism-governed evolution processes. Therefore, a better understanding of the structure and evolution of these networked complex systems requires us to describe such processes in a more detailed and realistic manner. In this paper, we introduce a new type of network growth rule which comprises addition and deletion of nodes, and propose an evolving network model to investigate the effect of node deleting on network structure. It is found that, with the introduction of node deleting, network structure is significantly transformed. In particular, degree distribution of the network undergoes a transition from scale-free to exponential forms as the intensity of node deleting increases. At the same time, nontrivial disassortative degree correlation develops spontaneously as a natural result of network evolution in the model. We also demonstrate that node deleting introduced in the model does not destroy the connectedness of a growing network so long as the increasing rate of edges is not excessively small. In addition, it is found that node deleting will weaken but not eliminate the small-world effect of a growing network, and generally it will decrease the clustering coefficient in a network. 
0704.00309	The Complexity of HCP in Digraps with Degree Bound Two	Computational Complexity (cs.CC)	Authors:Guohun Zhu	 Abstract: The Hamiltonian cycle problem (HCP) in digraphs D with degree bound two is solved by two mappings in this paper. The first bijection is between an incidence matrix C_{nm} of simple digraph and an incidence matrix F of balanced bipartite undirected graph G; The second mapping is from a perfect matching of G to a cycle of D. It proves that the complexity of HCP in D is polynomial, and finding a second non-isomorphism Hamiltonian cycle from a given Hamiltonian digraph with degree bound two is also polynomial. Lastly it deduces P=NP base on the results. 
0704.00310	VLBI observations of nineteen GHz-Peaked-Spectrum radio sources at 1.6  GHz	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Xiang Liu, Lang Cui, Wen-Feng Luo, Wei-Zhao Shi, Hua-Gang Song (Urumqi Observatory, NAOC)	 Abstract: Aims and Methods: We present the results of VLBI observations of nineteen GHz-Peaked-Spectrum (GPS) radio sources at 1.6 GHz. Of them, 15 sources are selected from the Parkes Half Jansky (PHJ) sample (Snellen 2002), 4 others are from our previous observation list. We aimed at imaging the structure of GPS sources, searching for Compact Symmetric Objects (CSOs) and studying the absorption for the convex radio spectra of GPS sources. Results: We obtained total intensity 1.6 GHz VLBI images of 17 sources for the first time. Of them, 80% show mini-double-lobe radio structure, indicating that they are CSOs or candidates, and their host AGNs could be edge-on to us. This result suggests that there is a high incidence of mini double-lobe sources (or CSOs) in the PHJ sample. The sources J0323+0534, J1135-0021, J1352+0232, J2058+0540, J2123-0112 and J2325-0344 with measured redshift, showing double-lobe structure with sizes of <1 kpc, are classified as CSOs. Three sources J1057+0012, J1600-0037 and J1753+2750 are considered as core-jet sources according to their morphologies and flux variability. 
0704.00311	Moment switching in nanotube magnetic force probes	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:John R. Kirtley, Zhifeng Deng, Lan Luan, Erhan Yenilmez, Hongjie Dai, Kathryn A. Moler	 Abstract: A recent advance in improving the spatial resolution of magnetic force microscopy (MFM) uses as sensor tips carbon nanotubes grown at the apex of conventional silicon cantilever pyramids and coated with a thin ferromagnetic layer. Magnetic images of high density vertically recorded media using these tips exhibit a doubling of the spatial frequency under some conditions. Here we demonstrate that this spatial frequency doubling is due to the switching of the moment direction of the nanotube tip. This results in a signal which is proportional to the absolute value of the signal normally observed in MFM. Our modeling indicates that a significant fraction of the tip volume is involved in the observed switching, and that it should be possible to image very high bit densities with nanotube magnetic force sensors. 
0704.00312	Power Spectra to 1% Accuracy between Dynamical Dark Energy Cosmologies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Matthew J. Francis, Geraint F. Lewis, Eric V. Linder	 Abstract: For dynamical dark energy cosmologies we carry out a series of N-body gravitational simulations, achieving percent level accuracy in the relative mass power spectra at any redshift. Such accuracy in the power spectrum is necessary for next generation cosmological mass probes. Our matching procedure reproduces the CMB distance to last scattering and delivers subpercent level power spectra at z=0 and z~3. We discuss the physical implications for probing dark energy with surveys of large scale structure. 
0704.00313	Possibility of Gapless Spin Liquid State by One-dimensionalization	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Yuta Hayashi, Masao Ogata	 Abstract: Motivated by the observation of a gapless spin liquid state in $\kappa$-(BEDT-TTF)$_2$Cu$_2$(CN)$_3$, we analyze the anisotropic triangular lattice $S=1/2$ Heisenberg model with the resonating valence bond mean-field approximation. Paying attention to the small quasi-one-dimensional anisotropy of the material, we take an approach from one-dimensional (1D) chains coupled with frustrating zig-zag bonds. By calculating one-particle excitation spectra changing anisotropy parameter $J'/J$ from the decoupled 1D chains to the isotropic triangular lattice, we find almost gapless excitations in the wide range from the 1D limit. This one-dimensionalization by frustration is considered to be a candidate for the mechanism of the gapless spin liquid state. 
0704.00314	Extra dimensions and Lorentz invariance violation	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Viktor Baukh, Alexander Zhuk, Tina Kahniashvili	 Abstract: We consider effective model where photons interact with scalar field corresponding to conformal excitations of the internal space (geometrical moduli/gravexcitons). We demonstrate that this interaction results in a modified dispersion relation for photons, and consequently, the photon group velocity depends on the energy implying the propagation time delay effect. We suggest to use the experimental bounds of the time delay of gamma ray bursts (GRBs) photons propagation as an additional constrain for the gravexciton parameters. 
0704.00315	The small deviations of many-dimensional diffusion processes and  rarefaction by boundaries	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Vitalii A. Gasanenko	 Abstract: We lead the algorithm of expansion of sojourn probability of many-dimensional diffusion processes in small domain. The principal member of this expansion defines normalizing coefficient for special limit theorems. 
0704.00316	The Millennium Galaxy Catalogue: The local supermassive black hole mass  function in early- and late-type galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Alister W. Graham, Simon P. Driver, Paul D. Allen, Jochen Liske	 Abstract: We provide a new estimate of the local supermassive black hole mass function using (i) the empirical relation between supermassive black hole mass and the Sersic index of the host spheroidal stellar system and (ii) the measured (spheroid) Sersic indices drawn from 10k galaxies in the Millennium Galaxy Catalogue. The observational simplicity of our approach, and the direct measurements of the black hole predictor quantity, i.e. the Sersic index, for both elliptical galaxies and the bulges of disc galaxies makes it straightforward to estimate accurate black hole masses in early- and late-type galaxies alike. We have parameterised the supermassive black hole mass function with a Schechter function and find, at the low-mass end, a logarithmic slope (1+alpha) of ~0.7 for the full galaxy sample and ~1.0 for the early-type galaxy sample. Considering spheroidal stellar systems brighter than M_B = -18 mag, and integrating down to black hole masses of 10^6 M_sun, we find that the local mass density of supermassive black holes in early-type galaxies rho_{bh, early-type} = (3.5+/-1.2) x 10^5 h^3_{70} M_sun Mpc^{-3}, and in late-type galaxies rho_{bh, late-type} = (1.0+/-0.5) x 10^5 h^3_{70} M_sun Mpc^{-3}. The uncertainties are derived from Monte Carlo simulations which include uncertainties in the M_bh-n relation, the catalogue of Sersic indices, the galaxy weights and Malmquist bias. The combined, cosmological, supermassive black hole mass density is thus Omega_{bh, total} = (3.2+/-1.2) x 10^{-6} h_70. That is, using a new and independent method, we conclude that (0.007+/-0.003) h^3_{70} per cent of the universe's baryons are presently locked up in supermassive black holes at the centres of galaxies. 
0704.00317	Complete Shrinking Ricci Solitons have Finite Fundamental Group	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:William Wylie	 Abstract: We show that if a complete Riemannian manifold supports a vector field such that the Ricci tensor plus the Lie derivative of the metric with respect to the vector field has a positive lower bound, then the fundamental group is finite. In particular, it follows that complete shrinking Ricci solitons and complete smooth metric measure spaces with a positive lower bound on the Bakry-Emery tensor have finite fundamental group. The method of proof is to generalize arguments of Garcia-Rio and Fernandez-Lopez in the compact case. 
0704.00318	Effects of Dirac sea on pion propagation in asymmetric nuclear matter	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Subhrajyoti Biswas, Abhee K. Dutt-Mazumder	 Abstract: We study pion propagation in asymmetric nuclear matter (ANM). One of the interesting consequences of pion propagation in ANM is the mode splitting for the different charged states of pions. First we describe the pion-nucleon dynamics using the non-chiral model where one starts with pseudoscalar (PS) $\pi$N coupling and the pseudovector (PV) representation is obtained via suitable non-linear field transformations. For both of these cases the effect of the Dirac sea is estimated. Subsequently, we present results using the chiral effective Lagrangian where the short-distance behavior (Dirac vacuum) is included by re-defining the field parameters as done in the modern effective field theory approach developed recently. The results are compared with the previous calculations for the case of symmetric nuclear matter (SNM). Closed form analytical results are presented for the effective pion masses and dispersion relations by making hard nucleon loop (HNL) approximation and suitable density expansion. 
0704.00319	Spin-orbit coupling effect on the persistent currents in mesoscopic ring  with an Anderson impurity	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Guo-Hui Ding, Bing Dong	 Abstract: Based on the finite $U$ slave boson method, we have investigated the effect of Rashba spin-orbit(SO) coupling on the persistent charge and spin currents in mesoscopic ring with an Anderson impurity. It is shown that the Kondo effect will decrease the magnitude of the persistent charge and spin currents in this side-coupled Anderson impurity case. In the presence of SO coupling, the persistent currents change drastically and oscillate with the strength of SO coupling. The SO coupling will suppress the Kondo effect and restore the abrupt jumps of the persistent currents. It is also found that a persistent spin current circulating the ring can exist even without the charge current in this system. 
0704.00320	Probability distributions generated by fractional diffusion equations	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Francesco Mainardi, Paolo Paradisi, Rudolf Gorenflo	 Abstract: Fractional calculus allows one to generalize the linear, one-dimensional, diffusion equation by replacing either the first time derivative or the second space derivative by a derivative of fractional order. The fundamental solutions of these equations provide probability density functions, evolving on time or variable in space, which are related to the class of stable distributions. This property is a noteworthy generalization of what happens for the standard diffusion equation and can be relevant in treating financial and economical problems where the stable probability distributions play a key role. 
0704.00321	Fabrication of half metallicity in a ferromagnetic metal	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Kalobaran Maiti	 Abstract: We investigate the growth of half metallic phase in a ferromagnetic material using state-of-the-art full potential linearized augmented plane wave method. To address the issue, we have substituted Ti at the Ru-sites in SrRuO3, where SrRuO3 is a ferromagnetic material. Calculated results establish Ti4+ valence states (similar to SrTiO3), which was predicted experimentally. Thus, Ti substitution dilutes the Ru-O-Ru connectivity, which is manifested in the calculated results in the form of significant band narrowing leading to finite gap between t2g and eg bands. At 75% substitution, a large gap (> 2 eV) appears at the Fermi level, e_F in the up spin density of states, while the down spin states contributes at e_F characterizing the system a half-metallic ferromagnet. The t2g - eg gap can be tailored judiciously by tuning Ti concentrations to minimize thermal effects, which is often the major bottleneck to achieve high spin polarization at elevated temperatures in other materials. This study, thus, provides a novel but simple way to fabricate half-metallicity in ferromagnetic materials, which are potential candidates for spin-based technology. 
0704.00322	Emergence of spatiotemporal chaos driven by far-field breakup of spiral  waves in the plankton ecological systems	Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)	Authors:Quan-Xing Liu, Gui-Quan Sun, Bai-Lian Li, Zhen Jin	 Abstract: Alexander B. Medvinsky \emph{et al} [A. B. Medvinsky, I. A. Tikhonova, R. R. Aliev, B.-L. Li, Z.-S. Lin, and H. Malchow, Phys. Rev. E \textbf{64}, 021915 (2001)] and Marcus R. Garvie \emph{et al} [M. R. Garvie and C. Trenchea, SIAM J. Control. Optim. \textbf{46}, 775-791 (2007)] shown that the minimal spatially extended reaction-diffusion model of phytoplankton-zooplankton can exhibit both regular, chaotic behavior, and spatiotemporal patterns in a patchy environment. Based on that, the spatial plankton model is furtherly investigated by means of computer simulations and theoretical analysis in the present paper when its parameters would be expected in the case of mixed Turing-Hopf bifurcation region. Our results show that the spiral waves exist in that region and the spatiotemporal chaos emerge, which arise from the far-field breakup of the spiral waves over large ranges of diffusion coefficients of phytoplankton and zooplankton. Moreover, the spatiotemporal chaos arising from the far-field breakup of spiral waves does not gradually involve the whole space within that region. Our results are confirmed by means of computation spectra and nonlinear bifurcation of wave trains. Finally, we give some explanations about the spatially structured patterns from the community level. 
0704.00323	General sequential quantum cloning	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Gui-Fang Dang, Heng Fan	 Abstract: Some multipartite quantum states can be generated in a sequential manner which may be implemented by various physical setups like microwave and optical cavity QED, trapped ions, and quantum dots etc. We analyze the general N to M qubits Universal Quantum Cloning Machine (UQCM) within a sequential generation scheme. We show that the N to M sequential UQCM is available. The case of d-level quantum states sequential cloning is also presented. 
0704.00324	On the pseudospectrum of elliptic quadratic differential operators	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Karel Pravda-Starov	 Abstract: We study the pseudospectrum of a class of non-selfadjoint differential operators. Our work consists in a detailed study of the microlocal properties, which rule the spectral stability or instability phenomena appearing under small perturbations for elliptic quadratic differential operators. The class of elliptic quadratic differential operators stands for the class of operators defined in the Weyl quantization by complex-valued elliptic quadratic symbols. We establish in this paper a simple necessary and sufficient condition on the Weyl symbol of these operators, which ensures the stability of their spectra. When this condition is violated, we prove that it occurs some strong spectral instabilities for the high energies of these operators, in some regions which can be far away from their spectra. We give a precise geometrical description of them, which explains the results obtained for these operators in some numerical simulations giving the computation of false eigenvalues far from their spectra by algorithms for eigenvalues computing. 
0704.00325	Fluctuation-dissipation relation on a Melde string in a turbulent flow,  considerations on a "dynamical temperature"	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Vincent Grenard (Phys-ENS), Nicolas Garnier (Phys-ENS), Antoine Naert (Phys-ENS)	 Abstract: We report on measurements of the transverse fluctuations of a string in a turbulent air jet flow. Harmonic modes are excited by the fluctuating drag force, at different wave-numbers. This simple mechanical probe makes it possible to measure excitations of the flow at specific scales, averaged over space and time: it is a scale-resolved, global measurement. We also measure the dissipation associated to the string motion, and we consider the ratio of the fluctuations over dissipation (FDR). In an exploratory approach, we investigate the concept of {\it effective temperature} defined through the FDR. We compare our observations with other definitions of temperature in turbulence. From the theory of Kolmogorov (1941), we derive the exponent -11/3 expected for the spectrum of the fluctuations. This simple model and our experimental results are in good agreement, over the range of wave-numbers, and Reynolds number accessible ($74000 \leq Re \leq 170000$). 
0704.00326	On generalized entropy measures and pathways	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:A.M. Mathai, H.J. Haubold	 Abstract: Product probability property, known in the literature as statistical independence, is examined first. Then generalized entropies are introduced, all of which give generalizations to Shannon entropy. It is shown that the nature of the recursivity postulate automatically determines the logarithmic functional form for Shannon entropy. Due to the logarithmic nature, Shannon entropy naturally gives rise to additivity, when applied to situations having product probability property. It is argued that the natural process is non-additivity, important, for example, in statistical mechanics, even in product probability property situations and additivity can hold due to the involvement of a recursivity postulate leading to a logarithmic function. Generalizations, including Mathai's generalized entropy are introduced and some of the properties are examined. Situations are examined where Mathai's entropy leads to pathway models, exponential and power law behavior and related differential equations. Connection of Mathai's entropy to Kerridge's measure of "inaccuracy" is also explored. 
0704.00327	Evolution of a band insulating phase from a correlated metallic phase	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Kalobaran Maiti, Ravi Shankar Singh, V.R.R. Medicherla	 Abstract: We investigate the evolution of the electronic structure in SrRu_(1-x)Ti_xO_3 as a function of x using high resolution photoemission spectroscopy, where SrRuO3 is a weakly correlated metal and SrTiO3 is a band insulator. The surface spectra exhibit a metal-insulator transition at x = 0.5 by opening up a soft gap. A hard gap appears at higher x values consistent with the transport properties. In contrast, the bulk spectra reveal a pseudogap at the Fermi level, and unusual evolution exhibiting an apparent broadening of the coherent feature and subsequent decrease in intensity of the lower Hubbard band with the increase in x. Interestingly, the first principle approaches are found to be sufficient to capture anomalous evolutions at high energy scale. Analysis of the spectral lineshape indicates strong interplay between disorder and electron correlation in the electronic properties of this system. 
0704.00328	Electroweak phase transitions in the MSSM with an extra $U(1)'$	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:S.W. Ham, E.J. Yoo, S.K. OH	 Abstract: We investigate the possibility of electroweak phase transition in the minimal supersymmetric standard model (MSSM) with an extra $U(1)'$. This model has two Higgs doublets and a singlet, in addition to a singlet exotic quark superfield. We find that at the one-loop level this model may accommodate the electroweak phase transitions that are strongly first-order in a reasonably large region of the parameter space. In the parameter region where the phase transitions take place, we observe that the lightest scalar Higgs boson has a smaller mass when the strength of the phase transition becomes weaker. Also, the other three heavier neutral Higgs bosons get more large masses when the strength of the phase transition becomes weaker. 
0704.00329	Solutions of fractional reaction-diffusion equations in terms of the  H-function	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:H.J. Haubold, A.M. Mathai, R.K. Saxena	 Abstract: This paper deals with the investigation of the solution of an unified fractional reaction-diffusion equation associated with the Caputo derivative as the time-derivative and Riesz-Feller fractional derivative as the space-derivative. The solution is derived by the application of the Laplace and Fourier transforms in closed form in terms of the H-function. The results derived are of general nature and include the results investigated earlier by many authors, notably by Mainardi et al. (2001, 2005) for the fundamental solution of the space-time fractional diffusion equation, and Saxena et al. (2006a, b) for fractional reaction- diffusion equations. The advantage of using Riesz-Feller derivative lies in the fact that the solution of the fractional reaction-diffusion equation containing this derivative includes the fundamental solution for space-time fractional diffusion, which itself is a generalization of neutral fractional diffusion, space-fractional diffusion, and time-fractional diffusion. These specialized types of diffusion can be interpreted as spatial probability density functions evolving in time and are expressible in terms of the H-functions in compact form. 
0704.00330	Random Matrix Theory at Nonzero $μ$ and $T$	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:K. Splittorff, J.J.M. Verbaarschot	 Abstract: We review applications of random matrix theory to QCD at nonzero temperature and chemical potential. The chiral phase transition of QCD and QCD-like theories is discussed in terms of eigenvalues of the Dirac operator. We show that for QCD at $\mu \ne 0$, which has a sign problem, the discontinuity in the chiral condensate is due to an alternative to the Banks-Casher relation. The severity of the sign problem is analyzed in the microscopic domain of QCD. 
0704.00331	Symmetries by base substitutions in the genetic code predict 2' or 3'  aminoacylation of tRNAs	Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT)	Authors:J.-L. Jestin, C. Soule (IHES)	 Abstract: This letter reports complete sets of two-fold symmetries between partitions of the universal genetic code. By substituting bases at each position of the codons according to a fixed rule, it happens that properties of the degeneracy pattern or of tRNA aminoacylation specificity are exchanged. 
0704.00332	The effect of a fifth large-scale space-time dimension on the  conservation of energy in a four dimensional Universe	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:M.B. Gerrard, T.J. Sumner	 Abstract: The effect of introducing a fifth large-scale space-time dimension to the equations of orbital dynamics was analysed in an earlier paper by the authors. The results showed good agreement with the observed flat rotation curves of galaxies and the Pioneer Anomaly. This analysis did not require the modification of Newtonian dynamics, but rather only their restatement in a five dimensional framework. The same analysis derived a acceleration parameter ar, which plays an important role in the restated equations of orbital dynamics, and suggested a value for ar. In this companion paper, the principle of conservation of energy is restated within the same five-dimensional framework. The resulting analysis provides an alternative route to estimating the value of ar, without reference to the equations of orbital dynamics, and based solely on key cosmological constants and parameters, including the gravitational constant, G. The same analysis suggests that: (i) the inverse square law of gravity may itself be due to the conservation of energy at the boundary between a four-dimensional universe and a fifth large-scale space-time dimension; and (ii) there is a limiting case for the Tulley-Fisher relationship linking the speed of light to the mass of the Universe. 
0704.00333	Optical properties of the Holstein-t-J model from dynamical mean-field  theory	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:E. Cappelluti, S. Ciuchi, S. Fratini	 Abstract: We employ dynamical mean-field theory to study the optical conductivity $\sigma(\omega)$ of one hole in the Holstein-t-J model. We provide an exact solution for $\sigma(\omega)$ in the limit of infinite connectivity. We apply our analysis to Nd$_{2-x}$Ce$_x$CuO$_4$. We show that our model can explain many features of the optical conductivity in this compounds in terms of magnetic/lattice polaron formation. 
0704.00334	A Multiphilic Descriptor for Chemical Reactivity and Selectivity	Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)	Authors:J. Padmanabhan (1,2), R. Parthasarathi (2), M. Elango (2), V. Subramanian (2), B. S. Krishnamoorthy (1,3), S. Gutierrez-Oliva (4), A. Toro-Labbe (4), D. R. Roy (1), P. K. Chattaraj (1)	 Abstract: In line with the local philicity concept proposed by Chattaraj et al. (Chattaraj, P. K.; Maiti, B.; Sarkar, U. J. Phys. Chem. A. 2003, 107, 4973) and a dual descriptor derived by Toro-Labbe and coworkers (Morell, C.; Grand, A.; Toro-Labbe, A. J. Phys. Chem. A. 2005, 109, 205), we propose a multiphilic descriptor. It is defined as the difference between nucleophilic (Wk+) and electrophilic (Wk-) condensed philicity functions. This descriptor is capable of simultaneously explaining the nucleophilicity and electrophilicity of the given atomic sites in the molecule. Variation of these quantities along the path of a soft reaction is also analyzed. Predictive ability of this descriptor has been successfully tested on the selected systems and reactions. Corresponding force profiles are also analyzed in some representative cases. Also, to study the intra- and intermolecular reactivities another related descriptor namely, the nucleophilicity excess (DelW-+) for a nucleophile, over the electrophilicity in it has been defined and tested on all-metal aromatic compounds. 
0704.00335	Approximation of the distribution of a stationary Markov process with  application to option pricing	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Gilles Pagès (PMA, LSProba), Fabien Panloup (PMA)	 Abstract: We build a sequence of empirical measures on the space D(R_+,R^d) of R^d-valued c\`adl\`ag functions on R_+ in order to approximate the law of a stationary R^d-valued Markov and Feller process (X_t). We obtain some general results of convergence of this sequence. Then, we apply them to Brownian diffusions and solutions to L\'evy driven SDE's under some Lyapunov-type stability assumptions. As a numerical application of this work, we show that this procedure gives an efficient way of option pricing in stochastic volatility models. 
0704.00336	Influence of Phonon dimensionality on Electron Energy Relaxation	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:J. T. Karvonen, I. J. Maasilta	 Abstract: We studied experimentally the role of phonon dimensionality on electron-phonon (e-p) interaction in thin copper wires evaporated either on suspended silicon nitride membranes or on bulk substrates, at sub-Kelvin temperatures. The power emitted from electrons to phonons was measured using sensitive normal metal-insulator-superconductor (NIS) tunnel junction thermometers. Membrane thicknesses ranging from 30 nm to 750 nm were used to clearly see the onset of the effects of two-dimensional (2D) phonon system. We observed for the first time that a 2D phonon spectrum clearly changes the temperature dependence and strength of the e-p scattering rate, with the interaction becoming stronger at the lowest temperatures below $\sim$ 0.5 K for the 30 nm membranes. 
0704.00337	Bursting Dynamics of the 3D Euler Equations in Cylindrical Domains	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:François Golse (CMLS-EcolePolytechnique, LJLL), Alex Mahalov, Basil Nicolaenko	 Abstract: A class of three-dimensional initial data characterized by uniformly large vorticity is considered for the Euler equations of incompressible fluids. The fast singular oscillating limits of the Euler equations are studied for parametrically resonant cylinders. Resonances of fast swirling Beltrami waves deplete the Euler nonlinearity. The resonant Euler equations are systems of three-dimensional rigid body equations, coupled or not. Some cases of these resonant systems have homoclinic cycles, and orbits in the vicinity of these homoclinic cycles lead to bursts of the Euler solution measured in Sobolev norms of order higher than that corresponding to the enstrophy. 
0704.00338	Synergistic Effects of MoDTC and ZDTP on Frictional Behaviour of  Tribofilms at the Nanometer Scale	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Sandrine Bec (LTDS), André Tonck (LTDS), Jean-Marie Georges (LTDS), Glyn W. Roper (SHELL)	 Abstract: The layered structure and the rheological properties of anti-wear films, generated in a rolling/sliding contact from lubricants containing zinc dialkyldithiophosphate (ZDTP) and/or molybdenum dialkyldithiocarbamate (MoDTC) additives, have been studied by dynamic nanoindentation experiments coupled with a simple modelling of the stiffness measurements. Local nano-friction experiments were conducted with the same device in order to determine the evolution of the friction coefficient as a function of the applied pressure for the different lubricant formulations. For the MoDTC film, the applied pressure in the friction test remains low (<0.5 GPa) and the apparent friction coefficient is high ($\mu$ > 0.4). For the tribofilms containing MoDTC together with ZDTP, which permits the applied pressure to increase up to a few GPa through some accommodation process, a very low friction domain appears (0.01 < $\mu$ < 0.05), located a few nanometers below the surface of the tribofilm. This low friction coefficient is attributed to the presence of MoS2 planes sliding over each other in a favourable configuration obtained when the pressure is sufficiently high, which is made possible by the presence of ZDTP. 
0704.00339	Lattice Boltzmann inverse kinetic approach for the incompressible  Navier-Stokes equations	Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)	Authors:Enrico Fonda, Massimo Tessarotto, Marco Ellero	 Abstract: In spite of the large number of papers appeared in the past which are devoted to the lattice Boltzmann (LB) methods, basic aspects of the theory still remain unchallenged. An unsolved theoretical issue is related to the construction of a discrete kinetic theory which yields \textit{exactly} the fluid equations, i.e., is non-asymptotic (here denoted as \textit{LB inverse kinetic theory}). The purpose of this paper is theoretical and aims at developing an inverse kinetic approach of this type. In principle infinite solutions exist to this problem but the freedom can be exploited in order to meet important requirements. In particular, the discrete kinetic theory can be defined so that it yields exactly the fluid equation also for arbitrary non-equilibrium (but suitably smooth) kinetic distribution functions and arbitrarily close to the boundary of the fluid domain. Unlike previous entropic LB methods the theorem can be obtained without functional constraints on the class of the initial distribution functions. Possible realizations of the theory and asymptotic approximations are provided which permit to determine the fluid equations \textit{with prescribed accuracy.} As a result, asymptotic accuracy estimates of customary LB approaches and comparisons with the Chorin artificial compressibility method are discussed. 
0704.00340	Phonon-mediated decay of an atom in a surface-induced potential	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Fam Le Kien, S. Dutta Gupta, K. Hakuta	 Abstract: We study phonon-mediated transitions between translational levels of an atom in a surface-induced potential. We present a general master equation governing the dynamics of the translational states of the atom. In the framework of the Debye model, we derive compact expressions for the rates for both upward and downward transitions. Numerical calculations for the transition rates are performed for a deep silica-induced potential allowing for a large number of bound levels as well as free states of a cesium atom. The total absorption rate is shown to be determined mainly by the bound-to-bound transitions for deep bound levels and by bound-to-free transitions for shallow bound levels. Moreover, the phonon emission and absorption processes can be orders of magnitude larger for deep bound levels as compared to the shallow bound ones. We also study various types of transitions from free states. We show that, for thermal atomic cesium with temperature in the range from 100 $\mu$K to 400 $\mu$K in the vicinity of a silica surface with temperature of 300 K, the adsorption (free-to-bound decay) rate is about two times larger than the heating (free-to-free upward decay) rate, while the cooling (free-to-free downward decay) rate is negligible. 
0704.00341	Infrared Evolution Equations: Method and Applications	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:B.I. Ermolaev, M. Greco, S.I. Troyan	 Abstract: It is a brief review on composing and solving Infrared Evolution Equations. They can be used in order to calculate amplitudes of high-energy reactions in different kinematic regions in the double-logarithmic approximation. 
0704.00342	Cofibrations in the Category of Frolicher Spaces. Part I	Algebraic Topology (math.AT)	Authors:B. Dugmore, PP. Ntumba	 Abstract: Cofibrations are defined in the category of Fr\"olicher spaces by weakening the analog of the classical definition to enable smooth homotopy extensions to be more easily constructed, using flattened unit intervals. We later relate smooth cofibrations to smooth neighborhood deformation retracts. The notion of smooth neighborhood deformation retract gives rise to an analogous result that a closed Fr\"olicher subspace $A$ of the Fr\"olicher space $X$ is a smooth neighborhood deformation retract of $X$ if and only if the inclusion $i: A\hookrightarrow X$ comes from a certain subclass of cofibrations. As an application we construct the right Puppe sequence. 
0704.00343	Experimental observation of structural crossover in binary mixtures of  colloidal hard spheres	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Jörg Baumgartl, Roel P.A. Dullens, Marjolein Dijkstra, Roland Roth, Clemens Bechinger	 Abstract: Using confocal-microscopy we investigate the structure of binary mixtures of colloidal hard spheres with size ratio q=0.61. As a function of the packing fraction of the two particle species, we observe a marked change of the dominant wavelength in the pair correlation function. This behavior is in excellent agreement with a recently predicted structural crossover in such mixtures. In addition, the repercussions of structural crossover on the real-space structure of a binary fluid are analyzed. We suggest a relation between crossover and the lateral extension of networks containing only equally sized particles that are connected by nearest neighbor bonds. This is supported by Monte-Carlo simulations which are performed at different packing fractions and size ratios. 
0704.00344	The Blazar Spectral Sequence and GLAST	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:L. Maraschi, G. Ghisellini, F. Tavecchio	 Abstract: The present status and understanding of the "spectral sequence" of blazars is discussed in the perspective of the upcoming GLAST launch. The vast improvement in sensitivity will allow to i) determine more objectively the "average" gamma-ray properties of classes objects ii) probe more deeply the ratio between accretion power and jet power in different systems. 
0704.00345	A High Robustness and Low Cost Model for Cascading Failures	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Bing Wang, Beom Jun Kim	 Abstract: We study numerically the cascading failure problem by using artificially created scale-free networks and the real network structure of the power grid. The capacity for a vertex is assigned as a monotonically increasing function of the load (or the betweenness centrality). Through the use of a simple functional form with two free parameters, revealed is that it is indeed possible to make networks more robust while spending less cost. We suggest that our method to prevent cascade by protecting less vertices is particularly important for the design of more robust real-world networks to cascading failures. 
0704.00346	Diffuse X-ray Emission from the Carina Nebula Observed with Suzaku	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Kenji Hamaguchi, the Suzaku Eta Carinae team, the Carinae D-1 team	 Abstract: A number of giant HII regions are associated with soft diffuse X-ray emission. Among these, the Carina nebula possesses the brightest soft diffuse emission. The required plasma temperature and thermal energy can be produced by collisions or termination of fast winds from main-sequence or embedded young O stars, but the extended emission is often observed from regions apart from massive stellar clusters. The origin of the X-ray emission is unknown. The XIS CCD camera onboard Suzaku has the best spectral resolution for extended soft sources so far, and is therefore capable of measuring key emission lines in the soft band. Suzaku observed the core and the eastern side of the Carina nebula (Car-D1) in 2005 Aug and 2006 June, respectively. Spectra of the south part of the core and Car-D1 similarly showed strong L-shell lines of iron ions and K-shell lines of silicon ions, while in the north of the core these lines were much weaker. Fitting the spectra with an absorbed thin-thermal plasma model showed kT~0.2, 0.6 keV and NH~1-2e21 cm-2 with a factor of 2-3 abundance variation in oxygen, magnesium, silicon and iron. The plasma might originate from an old supernova, or a super shell of multiple supernovae. 
0704.00347	Resolvent estimates related with a class of dispersive equations	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Hiroyuki Chihara	 Abstract: We present a simple proof of the resolvent estimates of elliptic Fourier multipliers on the Euclidean space, and apply them to the analysis of time-global and spatially-local smoothing estimates of a class of dispersive equations. For this purpose we study in detail the properties of the restriction of Fourier transform on the unit cotangent sphere associated with the symbols of multipliers. 
0704.00348	What can emission lines tell us?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G. Stasinska	 Abstract: 1 Generalities 2 Empirical diagnostics based on emission lines 3 Photoionization modelling 4 Pending questions 5 Appendix: Lists of useful lines and how to deal with them 
0704.00349	The Colin de Verdière number and graphs of polytopes	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Ivan Izmestiev	 Abstract: The Colin de Verdi\`ere number $\mu(G)$ of a graph $G$ is the maximum corank of a Colin de Verdi\`ere matrix for $G$ (that is, of a Schr\"odinger operator on $G$ with a single negative eigenvalue). In 2001, Lov\'asz gave a construction that associated to every convex 3-polytope a Colin de Verdi\`ere matrix of corank 3 for its 1-skeleton. We generalize the Lov\'asz construction to higher dimensions by interpreting it as minus the Hessian matrix of the volume of the polar dual. As a corollary, $\mu(G) \ge d$ if $G$ is the 1-skeleton of a convex $d$-polytope. Determination of the signature of the Hessian of the volume is based on the second Minkowski inequality for mixed volumes and on Bol's condition for equality. 
0704.00350	Visible spectroscopic and photometric survey of Jupiter Trojans: final  results on dynamical families	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Fornasier, E. Dotto, O. Hainaut, F. Marzari, H. Boehnhardt, F. De Luise, M. A. Barucci	 Abstract: We present the results of a visible spectroscopic and photometric survey of Jupiter Trojans belonging to different dynamical families carried out at the ESO-NTT telescope. We obtained data on 47 objects, 23 belonging to the L5 swarm and 24 to the L4 one. These data together with those already published by Fornasier et al. (2004a) and Dotto et al. (2006), constitute a total sample of visible spectra for 80 objects. The survey allows us to investigate six families (Aneas, Anchises, Misenus, Phereclos, Sarpedon, Panthoos) in the L5 cloud and four L4 families (Eurybates, Menelaus, 1986 WD and 1986 TS6). The sample that we measured is dominated by D--type asteroids, with the exception of the Eurybates family in the L4 swarm, where there is a dominance of C- and P-type asteroids. All the spectra that we obtained are featureless with the exception of some Eurybates members, where a drop--off of the reflectance is detected shortward of 5200 A. Similar features are seen in main belt C-type asteroids and commonly attributed to the intervalence charge transfer transition in oxidized iron. Our sample comprises fainter and smaller Trojans as compared to the literature's data and allows us to investigate the properties of objects with estimated diameter smaller than 40--50 km. The analysis of the spectral slopes and colors versus the estimated diameters shows that the blue and red objects have indistinguishable size distribution. We perform a statistical investigation of the Trojans's spectra property distributions as a function of their orbital and physical parameters, and in comparison with other classes of minor bodies in the outer Solar System. Trojans at lower inclination appear significantly bluer than those at higher inclination, but this effect is strongly driven by the Eurybates family. 
0704.00351	FIRST-based survey of Compact Steep Spectrum sources, V.  Milliarcsecond-scale morphology of CSS objects	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Magdalena Kunert-Bajraszewska (1), Andrzej Marecki (1),  ((1) Torun Centre for Astronomy, N. Copernicus University, Torun)	 Abstract: Multifrequency VLBA observations of the final group of ten objects in a sample of FIRST-based compact steep spectrum (CSS) sources are presented. The sample was selected to investigate whether objects of this kind could be relics of radio-loud AGNs switched off at very early stages of their evolution or possibly to indicate intermittent activity. Initial observations were made using MERLIN at 5 GHz. The sources have now been observed with the VLBA at 1.7, 5 and 8.4 GHz in a snapshot mode with phase-referencing. The resulting maps are presented along with unpublished 8.4-GHz VLA images of five sources. Some of the sources discussed here show a complex radio morphology and therefore a complicated past that, in some cases, might indicate intermittent activity. One of the sources studied - 1045+352 - is known as a powerful radio and infrared-luminous broad absorption line (BAL) quasar. It is a young CSS object whose asymmetric two-sided morphology on a scale of several hundred parsecs, extending in two different directions, may suggest intermittent activity. The young age and compact structure of 1045+352 is consistent with the evolution scenario of BAL quasars. It has also been confirmed that the submillimetre flux of 1045+352 can be seriously contaminated by synchrotron emission. 
0704.00352	Investigation of relaxation phenomena in high-temperature  superconductors HoBa2Cu3O7-d at the action of pulsed magnetic fields	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:J.G. Chigvinadze, J.V. Acrivos, S.M. Ashimov, A.A. Iashvili, T. V. Machaidze, Th. Wolf	 Abstract: It is used the mechanical method of Abrikosov vortex stimulated dynamics investigation in superconductors. With its help it was studied relaxation phenomena in vortex matter of high-temperature superconductors. It established that pulsed magnetic fields change the course of relaxation processes taking place in vortex matter. The study of the influence of magnetic pulses differing by their durations and amplitudes on vortex system of isotropic high-temperature superconductors system HoBa2Cu3O7-d showed the presence of threshold phenomena. The small duration pulses does not change the course of relaxation processes taking place in vortex matter. When the duration of pulses exceeds some critical value (threshold), then their influence change the course of relaxation process which is revealed by stepwise change of relaxing mechanical moment . These investigations showed that the time for formatting of Abrikosov vortex lattice in HoBa2Cu3O7-d is of the order of 20 microsec. which on the order of value exceeds the time necessary for formation of a single vortex observed in type II superconductors. 
0704.00353	Spin and pseudospin symmetries and the equivalent spectra of  relativistic spin-1/2 and spin-0 particles	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:P. Alberto, A. S. de Castro, M. Malheiro	 Abstract: We show that the conditions which originate the spin and pseudospin symmetries in the Dirac equation are the same that produce equivalent energy spectra of relativistic spin-1/2 and spin-0 particles in the presence of vector and scalar potentials. The conclusions do not depend on the particular shapes of the potentials and can be important in different fields of physics. When both scalar and vector potentials are spherical, these conditions for isospectrality imply that the spin-orbit and Darwin terms of either the upper component or the lower component of the Dirac spinor vanish, making it equivalent, as far as energy is concerned, to a spin-0 state. In this case, besides energy, a scalar particle will also have the same orbital angular momentum as the (conserved) orbital angular momentum of either the upper or lower component of the corresponding spin-1/2 particle. We point out a few possible applications of this result. 
0704.00354	General asymptotic solutions of the Einstein equations and phase  transitions in quantum gravity	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:D. Podolsky	 Abstract: We discuss generic properties of classical and quantum theories of gravity with a scalar field which are revealed at the vicinity of the cosmological singularity. When the potential of the scalar field is exponential and unbounded from below, the general solution of the Einstein equations has quasi-isotropic asymptotics near the singularity instead of the usual anisotropic Belinskii - Khalatnikov - Lifshitz (BKL) asymptotics. Depending on the strength of scalar field potential, there exist two phases of quantum gravity with scalar field: one with essentially anisotropic behavior of field correlation functions near the cosmological singularity, and another with quasi-isotropic behavior. The ``phase transition'' between the two phases is interpreted as the condensation of gravitons. 
0704.00355	Trigonometric parallaxes of high velocity halo white dwarf candidates	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C. Ducourant, R. Teixeira, N.C. Hambly, B. R. Oppenheimer, M.R.S. Hawkins, M. Rapaport, J. Modolo, J.F. Lecampion	 Abstract: The status of 38 halo white dwarf candidates identified by Oppenheimer et al. (2001) has been intensively discussed by various authors. In analyses undertaken to date, trigonometric parallaxes are crucial missing data. Distance measurements are mandatory to kinematically segregate halo object from disk objects and hence enable a more reliable estimate of the local density of halo dark matter residing in such objects. We present trigonometric parallax measurements for 15 candidate halo white dwarfs (WDs) selected from the Oppenheimer et al. (2001) list. We observed the stars using the ESO 1.56-m Danish Telescope and ESO 2.2-m telescope from August 2001 to July 2004. Parallaxes with accuracies of 1--2 mas were determined yielding relative errors on distances of $\sim5$% for 6 objects, $\sim12$% for 3 objects, and $\sim20$% for two more objects. Four stars appear to be too distant (probably farther than 100 pc) to have measurable parallaxes in our observations. Distances, absolute magnitudes and revised space velocities were derived for the 15 halo WDs from the Oppenheimer et al. (2001) list. Halo membership is confirmed unambiguously for 6 objects while 5 objects may be thick disk members and 4 objects are too distant to draw any conclusion based solely on kinematics. Comparing our trigonometric parallaxes with photometric parallaxes used in previous work reveals an overestimation of distance as derived from photometric techniques. This new data set can be used to revise the halo white dwarf space density, and that analysis will be presented in a subsequent publication. 
0704.00356	AMR simulations of the low T/|W| bar-mode instability of neutron stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Pablo Cerdá-Durán, Vicent Quilis, José A. Font	 Abstract: It has been recently argued through numerical work that rotating stars with a high degree of differential rotation are dynamically unstable against bar-mode deformation, even for values of the ratio of rotational kinetic energy to gravitational potential energy as low as O(0.01). This may have implications for gravitational wave astronomy in high-frequency sources such as core collapse supernovae. In this paper we present high-resolution simulations, performed with an adaptive mesh refinement hydrodynamics code, of such low T/|W| bar-mode instability. The complex morphological features involved in the nonlinear dynamics of the instability are revealed in our simulations, which show that the excitation of Kelvin-Helmholtz-like fluid modes outside the corotation radius of the star leads to the saturation of the bar-mode deformation. While the overall trends reported in an earlier investigation are confirmed by our work, we also find that numerical resolution plays an important role during the long-term, nonlinear behaviour of the instability, which has implications on the dynamics of rotating stars and on the attainable amplitudes of the associated gravitational wave signals. 
0704.00357	Evolutionary games on minimally structured populations	Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)	Authors:Gergely J Szollosi, Imre Derenyi	 Abstract: Population structure induced by both spatial embedding and more general networks of interaction, such as model social networks, have been shown to have a fundamental effect on the dynamics and outcome of evolutionary games. These effects have, however, proved to be sensitive to the details of the underlying topology and dynamics. Here we introduce a minimal population structure that is described by two distinct hierarchical levels of interaction. We believe this model is able to identify effects of spatial structure that do not depend on the details of the topology. We derive the dynamics governing the evolution of a system starting from fundamental individual level stochastic processes through two successive meanfield approximations. In our model of population structure the topology of interactions is described by only two parameters: the effective population size at the local scale and the relative strength of local dynamics to global mixing. We demonstrate, for example, the existence of a continuous transition leading to the dominance of cooperation in populations with hierarchical levels of unstructured mixing as the benefit to cost ratio becomes smaller then the local population size. Applying our model of spatial structure to the repeated prisoner's dilemma we uncover a novel and counterintuitive mechanism by which the constant influx of defectors sustains cooperation. Further exploring the phase space of the repeated prisoner's dilemma and also of the "rock-paper-scissor" game we find indications of rich structure and are able to reproduce several effects observed in other models with explicit spatial embedding, such as the maintenance of biodiversity and the emergence of global oscillations. 
0704.00358	Flavor Physics in SUSY at large tan(beta)	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Paride Paradisi	 Abstract: We discuss the phenomenological impact of a particularly interesting corner of the MSSM: the large tan(beta) regime. The capabilities of leptonic and hadronic Flavor Violating processes in shedding light on physics beyond the Standard Model are reviewed. Moreover, we show that tests of Lepton Universality in charged current processes can represent an interesting handle to obtain relevant information on New Physics scenarios. 
0704.00359	Some properties of the complex Monge-Ampere operator in Cegrell's  classes and applications	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Nguyen Van Khue, Pham Hoang Hiep	 Abstract: In this article we will first prove a result about convergence in capacity. Using the achieved result we will obtain a general decompositon theorem for complex Monge-Ampere measues which will be used to prove a comparison principle for the complex Monge-Ampere operator. 
0704.00360	Torsional oscillations of longitudinally inhomogeneous coronal loops	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T.V. Zaqarashvili, K Murawski	 Abstract: We explore the effect of an inhomogeneous mass density field on frequencies and wave profiles of torsional Alfven oscillations in solar coronal loops. Dispersion relations for torsional oscillations are derived analytically in limits of weak and strong inhomogeneities. These analytical results are verified by numerical solutions, which are valid for a wide range of inhomogeneity strength. It is shown that the inhomogeneous mass density field leads to the reduction of a wave frequency of torsional oscillations, in comparison to that of estimated from mass density at the loop apex. This frequency reduction results from the decrease of an average Alfven speed as far as the inhomogeneous loop is denser at its footpoints. The derived dispersion relations and wave profiles are important for potential observations of torsional oscillations which result in periodic variations of spectral line widths. Torsional oscillations offer an additional powerful tool for a development of coronal seismology. 
0704.00361	Pseudo-random Puncturing: A Technique to Lower the Error Floor of Turbo  Codes	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Ioannis Chatzigeorgiou, Miguel R. D. Rodrigues, Ian J. Wassell, Rolando Carrasco	 Abstract: It has been observed that particular rate-1/2 partially systematic parallel concatenated convolutional codes (PCCCs) can achieve a lower error floor than that of their rate-1/3 parent codes. Nevertheless, good puncturing patterns can only be identified by means of an exhaustive search, whilst convergence towards low bit error probabilities can be problematic when the systematic output of a rate-1/2 partially systematic PCCC is heavily punctured. In this paper, we present and study a family of rate-1/2 partially systematic PCCCs, which we call pseudo-randomly punctured codes. We evaluate their bit error rate performance and we show that they always yield a lower error floor than that of their rate-1/3 parent codes. Furthermore, we compare analytic results to simulations and we demonstrate that their performance converges towards the error floor region, owning to the moderate puncturing of their systematic output. Consequently, we propose pseudo-random puncturing as a means of improving the bandwidth efficiency of a PCCC and simultaneously lowering its error floor. 
0704.00362	The Arctic Circle Revisited	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:F. Colomo, A.G. Pronko	 Abstract: The problem of limit shapes in the six-vertex model with domain wall boundary conditions is addressed by considering a specially tailored bulk correlation function, the emptiness formation probability. A closed expression of this correlation function is given, both in terms of certain determinant and multiple integral, which allows for a systematic treatment of the limit shapes of the model for full range of values of vertex weights. Specifically, we show that for vertex weights corresponding to the free-fermion line on the phase diagram, the emptiness formation probability is related to a one-matrix model with a triple logarithmic singularity, or Triple Penner model. The saddle-point analysis of this model leads to the Arctic Circle Theorem, and its generalization to the Arctic Ellipses, known previously from domino tilings. 
0704.00363	Time and motion in physics: the Reciprocity Principle, relativistic  invariance of the lengths of rulers and time dilatation	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:J.H.Field	 Abstract: Ponderable objects moving in free space according to Newton's First Law constitute both rulers and clocks when one such object is viewed from the rest frame of another. Together with the Reciprocity Principle this is used to demonstrate, in both Galilean and special relativity, the invariance of the measured length of a ruler in motion. The different times: `proper', `improper' and `apparent' appearing in different formulations of the relativistic time dilatation relation are discussed and exemplified by experimental applications. A non-intuitive `length expansion' effect predicted by the Reciprocity Principle as a necessary consequence of time dilatation is pointed out 
0704.00364	B --> rho K* decays and other rare vector-vector modes	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:G. Vasseur	 Abstract: The recent analyses of the following rare vector-vector decays of the B meson are presented: rho K*, omega K*, omega rho, omega omega, and omega phi charmless final states. The latest results indicate that the fraction of longitudinal polarization is about 0.5 in penguin-dominated modes and close to 1 for tree-dominated modes. 
0704.00365	Extending the theory of phonon-mediated superconductivity in quasi-2D	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:J.P.Hague	 Abstract: I present results from an extended Migdal-Eliashberg theory of electron-phonon interactions and superconductivity. The history of the electron-phonon problem is introduced, and then study of the intermediate parameter regime is justified from the energy scales in the cuprate superconductors. The Holstein model is detailed, and limiting cases are examined to demonstrate the need for an extended theory of superconductivity. Results of the extended approximation are shown, including spectral functions and phase diagrams. These are discussed with reference to Hohenberg's theorem, the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer theory and Coulomb repulsion. 
0704.00366	Generalized Nariai Solutions for Yang-type Monopoles	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Pablo Diaz, Antonio Segui	 Abstract: A detailed study of the geometries that emerge by a gravitating generalized Yang monopole in even dimensions is carried out. In particular, those which present black hole and cosmological horizons. This two-horizon system is thermally unstable. The process of thermalization will drive both horizons to coalesce. This limit is what is profusely studied in this paper. It is shown that eventhough coordinate distance shrinks to zero, physical distance does not. So, there is some remaining space which geometry has been computed and identified as a generalized Nariai solution. The thermal properties of this new spacetime are then calculated. Topics, as the elliptical relation between radii of spheres in the geometry or a discussion about whether a mass-type term should be present in the line element or not, are also included. 
0704.00367	Instanton representation of Plebanski gravity. Consistency of the  initital value constraints under time evolution	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Eyo Eyo Ita III	 Abstract: The instanton representation of Plebanski gravity provides as equations of motion a Hodge self-duality condition and a set of `generalized' Maxwell's equations, subject to gravitational degrees of freedom encoded in the initial value constraints of general relativity. The main result of the present paper will be to prove that this constraint surface is preserved under time evolution. We carry this out not using the usual Dirac procedure, but rather the Lagrangian equations of motion themsleves. Finally, we provide a comparison with the Ashtekar formulation to place these results into overall context. 
0704.00368	Metal-insulator transition in the low-dimensional organic conductor  (TMTSF)2FSO3 probed by infrared microspectroscopy	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:A. Pashkin, K. Thirunavukkuarasu, Y.-L. Mathis, W. Kang, C. A. Kuntscher	 Abstract: We present measurements of the infrared response of the quasi-one-dimensional organic conductor (TMTSF)2$SO3 along (E||a) and perpendicular (E||b') to the stacking axis as a function of temperature. Above the metal-insulator transition related to the anion ordering the optical conductivity spectra show a Drude-like response. Below the transition an energy gap of about 1500 cm-1 (185 meV) opens, leading to the corresponding charge transfer band in the optical conductivity spectra. The analysis of the infrared-active vibrations gives evidence for the long-range crystal structure modulation below the transition temperature and for the short-range order fluctuations of the lattice modulation above the transition temperature. Also we report about a new infrared mode at around 710 cm-1 with a peculiar temperature behavior, which has so far not been observed in any other (TMTSF)2X salt showing a metal-insulator transition. A qualitative model based on the coupling between the TMTSF molecule vibration and the reorientation of electrical dipole moment of the FSO3 anion is proposed, in order to explain the anomalous behavior of the new mode. 
0704.00369	The effect of Topcolor Assisted Technicolor, and other models, on  Neutrino Oscillation	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Minako Honda, Yee Kao, Naotoshi Okamura, Alexey Pronin, Tatsu Takeuchi	 Abstract: New physics beyond the Standard Model can lead to extra matter effects on neutrino oscillation if the new interactions distinguish among the three flavors of neutrino. In Ref.1, we argued that a long-baseline neutrino oscillation experiment in which the Fermilab-NUMI beam in its high-energy mode is aimed at the planned Hyper-Kamiokande detector would be capable of constraining the size of those extra matter effects, provided the vacuum value of \sin^2 2\theta_{23} is not too close to one. In this talk, we discuss how such a constraint would translate into limits on the coupling constants and masses of new particles in models such as topcolor assisted technicolor. 
0704.00370	Shaped angular dependence of the spin transfer torque and microwave  generation without magnetic field	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:O. Boulle, V. Cros, J. Grollier, L. G. Pereira, C. Deranlot, F. Petroff, G. Faini, J. Barnas, A. Fert	 Abstract: The generation of oscillations in the microwave frequency range is one of the most important applications expected from spintronics devices exploiting the spin transfer phenomenon. We report transport and microwave power measurements on specially designed nanopillars for which a non-standard angular dependence of the spin transfer torque (wavy variation) is predicted by theoretical models. We observe a new kind of current-induced dynamics that is characterized by large angle precessions in the absence of any applied field, as this is also predicted by simulation with such a wavy angular dependence of the torque. This type of non-standard nanopillars can represent an interesting way for the implementation of spin transfer oscillators since they are able to generate microwave oscillations without applied magnetic field. We also emphasize the theoretical implications of our results on the angular dependence of the torque. 
0704.00371	Dark energy interacting with neutrinos and dark matter: a  phenomenological theory	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:G. M. Kremer	 Abstract: A model for a flat homogeneous and isotropic Universe composed of dark energy, dark matter, neutrinos, radiation and baryons is analyzed. The fields of dark matter and neutrinos are supposed to interact with the dark energy. The dark energy is considered to obey either the van der Waals or the Chaplygin equations of state. The ratio between the pressure and the energy density of the neutrinos varies with the red-shift simulating massive and non-relativistic neutrinos at small red-shifts and non-massive relativistic neutrinos at high red-shifts. The model can reproduce the expected red-shift behaviors of the deceleration parameter and of the density parameters of each constituent. 
0704.00372	Levy-Lieb constrained-search formulation as a minimization of the  correlation functional	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:L.Delle Site	 Abstract: The constrained-search formulation of Levy and Lieb, which formally defines the exact Hohenberg-Kohn functional for any N-representable electron density, is here shown to be equivalent to the minimization of the correlation functional with respect to the N-1 conditional probability density, where N is number of electrons of the system. The consequences and implications of such a result are here analyzed and discussed via a practical example. 
0704.00373	Reality of linear and angular momentum expectation values in bound  states	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Utpal Roy, Suranjana Ghosh, T. Shreecharan, Kaushik Bhattacharya	 Abstract: In quantum mechanics textbooks the momentum operator is defined in the Cartesian coordinates and rarely the form of the momentum operator in spherical polar coordinates is discussed. Consequently one always generalizes the Cartesian prescription to other coordinates and falls in a trap. In this work we introduce the difficulties one faces when the question of the momentum operator in spherical polar coordinate comes. We have tried to point out most of the elementary quantum mechanical results, related to the momentum operator, which has coordinate dependence. We explicitly calculate the momentum expectation values in various bound states and show that the expectation value really turns out to be zero, a consequence of the fact that the momentum expectation value is real. We comment briefly on the status of the angular variables in quantum mechanics and the problems related in interpreting them as dynamical variables. At the end, we calculate the Heisenberg's equation of motion for the radial component of the momentum for the Hydrogen atom. 
0704.00374	Gravity-induced electric polarization of matter and planetary magnetic  fields	Geophysics (physics.geo-ph)	Authors:Boris A. Zon, Igor Yu. Kretinin	 Abstract: This paper has been withdrawn due to copyright reasons. 
0704.00375	Rich methane premixed laminar flames doped by light unsaturated  hydrocarbons - Part I : allene and propyne	Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)	Authors:Hadj-Ali Gueniche (DCPR), Pierre-Alexandre Glaude (DCPR), Guillaume Dayma (DCPR), René Fournet (DCPR), Frédérique Battin-Leclerc (DCPR)	 Abstract: The structure of three laminar premixed rich flames has been investigated: a pure methane flame and two methane flames doped by allene and propyne, respectively. The gases of the three flames contain 20.9% (molar) of methane and 33.4% of oxygen, corresponding to an equivalence ratio of 1.25 for the pure methane flame. In both doped flames, 2.49% of C3H4 was added, corresponding to a ratio C3H4/CH4 of 12% and an equivalence ratio of 1.55. The three flames have been stabilized on a burner at a pressure of 6.7 kPa using argon as dilutant, with a gas velocity at the burner of 36 cm/s at 333 K. The concentration profiles of stable species were measured by gas chromatography after sampling with a quartz microprobe. Quantified species included carbon monoxide and dioxide, methane, oxygen, hydrogen, ethane, ethylene, acetylene, propyne, allene, propene, propane, 1,2-butadiene, 1,3-butadiene, 1-butene, isobutene, 1-butyne, vinylacetylene, and benzene. The temperature was measured using a PtRh (6%)-PtRh (30%) thermocouple settled inside the enclosure and ranged from 700 K close to the burner up to 1850 K. In order to model these new results, some improvements have been made to a mechanism previously developed in our laboratory for the reactions of C3-C4 unsaturated hydrocarbons. The main reaction pathways of consumption of allene and propyne and of formation of C6 aromatic species have been derived from flow rate analyses. 
0704.00376	Environmental noise reduction for holonomic quantum gates	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Daniele Parodi, Maura Sassetti, Paolo Solinas, Nino Zanghì	 Abstract: We study the performance of holonomic quantum gates, driven by lasers, under the effect of a dissipative environment modeled as a thermal bath of oscillators. We show how to enhance the performance of the gates by suitable choice of the loop in the manifold of the controllable parameters of the laser. For a simplified, albeit realistic model, we find the surprising result that for a long time evolution the performance of the gate (properly estimated in terms of average fidelity) increases. On the basis of this result, we compare holonomic gates with the so-called stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) gates. 
0704.00377	The lifetime of unstable particles in electromagnetic fields	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Daniele Binosi (ECT*, Trento), Vladimir Pascalutsa (ECT*, Trento & Mainz U.)	 Abstract: We show that the electromagnetic moments of unstable particles (resonances) have an absorptive contribution which quantifies the change of the particle's lifetime in an external electromagnetic field. To give an example we compute here the imaginary part of the magnetic moment for the cases of the muon and the neutron at leading order in the electroweak coupling. We also consider an analogous effect for the strongly-decaying $\Delta$(1232) resonance. The result for the muon is Im$ \mu = e G_F^2 m^3/768 \pi^3$, with $e$ the charge and $m$ the mass of the muon, $G_F$ the Fermi constant, which in an external magnetic field of $B$ Tesla give rise to the relative change in the muon lifetime of $3\times 10^{-15} B$. For neutron the effect is of a similar magnitude. We speculate on the observable implications of this effect. 
0704.00378	An equilibrium problem for the limiting eigenvalue distribution of  banded Toeplitz matrices	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Maurice Duits, Arno B.J. Kuijlaars	 Abstract: We study the limiting eigenvalue distribution of $n\times n$ banded Toeplitz matrices as $n\to \infty$. From classical results of Schmidt-Spitzer and Hirschman it is known that the eigenvalues accumulate on a special curve in the complex plane and the normalized eigenvalue counting measure converges weakly to a measure on this curve as $n\to\infty$. In this paper, we characterize the limiting measure in terms of an equilibrium problem. The limiting measure is one component of the unique vector of measures that minimes an energy functional defined on admissible vectors of measures. In addition, we show that each of the other components is the limiting measure of the normalized counting measure on certain generalized eigenvalues. 
0704.00379	Capturing knots in polymers	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:P. Virnau, M. Kardar, Y. Kantor	 Abstract: This paper visualizes a knot reduction algorithm 
0704.00380	Exponential growth rates in a typed branching diffusion	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Y. Git, J. W. Harris, S. C. Harris	 Abstract: We study the high temperature phase of a family of typed branching diffusions initially studied in [Ast\'{e}risque 236 (1996) 133--154] and [Lecture Notes in Math. 1729 (2000) 239--256 Springer, Berlin]. The primary aim is to establish some almost-sure limit results for the long-term behavior of this particle system, namely the speed at which the population of particles colonizes both space and type dimensions, as well as the rate at which the population grows within this asymptotic shape. Our approach will include identification of an explicit two-phase mechanism by which particles can build up in sufficient numbers with spatial positions near $-\gamma t$ and type positions near $\kappa \sqrt{t}$ at large times $t$. The proofs involve the application of a variety of martingale techniques--most importantly a ``spine'' construction involving a change of measure with an additive martingale. In addition to the model's intrinsic interest, the methodologies presented contain ideas that will adapt to other branching settings. We also briefly discuss applications to traveling wave solutions of an associated reaction--diffusion equation. 
0704.00381	The collision velocity of the bullet cluster in conventional and  modified dynamics	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Garry W. Angus (St. Andrews), Stacy S. McGaugh (Maryland)	 Abstract: We consider the orbit of the bullet cluster 1E 0657-56 in both CDM and MOND using accurate mass models appropriate to each case in order to ascertain the maximum plausible collision velocity. Impact velocities consistent with the shock velocity (~ 4700km/s) occur naturally in MOND. CDM can generate collision velocities of at most ~ 3800km/s, and is only consistent with the data provided that the shock velocity has been substantially enhanced by hydrodynamical effects. 
0704.00382	On Some Subgroup Chains Related to Kneser's Theorem	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Yahya Ould Hamidoune, Oriol Serra, Gilles Zemor	 Abstract: A recent result of Balandraud shows that for every subset S of an abelian group G, there exists a non trivial subgroup H such that |TS| <= |T|+|S|-2 holds only if the stabilizer of TS contains H. Notice that Kneser's Theorem says only that the stabilizer of TS must be a non-zero subgroup. This strong form of Kneser's theorem follows from some nice properties of a certain poset investigated by Balandraud. We consider an analogous poset for nonabelian groups and, by using classical tools from Additive Number Theory, extend some of the above results. In particular we obtain short proofs of Balandraud's results in the abelian case. 
0704.00383	The Exact Boundary Condition to Solve the Schrodinger Equation of Many  Electron System	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Rajendra Prasad	 Abstract: In an attempt to bypass the sign problem in quantum Monte Carlo simulation of electronic systems within the framework of fixed node approach, we derive the exclusion principle "Two electrons can't be at the same external isopotential surface simultaneously" using the first postulate of quantum mechanics. We propose the exact Coulomb-Exchange nodal surface i.e. the exact boundary condition to solve the non-relativistic Schrodinger equation for the non-degenerate ground state of atoms and molecules. This boundary condition was applied to compute the ground state energies of N, Ne, Li2, Be2, B2, C2, N2, O2, F2, and H2O systems using diffusion Monte Carlo method. The ground state energies thus obtained agree well with the exact estimate of non-relativistic energies. 
0704.00384	Clustering features of $^9$Be, $^{14}$N, $^7$Be, and $^8$B nuclei in  relativistic fragmentation	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:D. A. Artemenkov, T. V. Shchedrina, R. Stanoeva, P. I. Zarubin	 Abstract: Recent studies of clustering in light nuclei with an initial energy above 1 A GeV in nuclear treack emulsion are overviewed. The results of investigations of the relativistic $^9$Be nuclei fragmentation in emulsion, which entails the production of He fragments, are presented. It is shown that most precise angular measurements provided by this technique play a crucial role in the restoration of the excitation spectrum of the $\alpha$ particle sysytem. In peripheral interactions $^9$Be nuclei are dissociated practically totally through the 0$^+$ and 2$^+$ states of the $^8$Be nucleus. The results of investigations of the dissociation of a $^{14}$N nucleus of momentum 2.86 A GeV/c in emulsion are presented as example of more complicated system. The momentum and correlation characteristics of $\alpha$ particles for the $^{14}$N$\to3\alpha+X$ channel in the laboratory system and the rest systems of 3$\alpha$ particles were considered in detail. Topology of charged fragments produced in peripheral relativistic dissociation of radioactive $^8$B, $^7$Be nuclei in emulsion is studied. 
0704.00385	Super-shell structures and pairing in ultracold trapped Fermi gases	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:M. Ogren, H. Heiselberg	 Abstract: We calculate level densities and pairing gaps for an ultracold dilute gas of fermionic atoms in harmonic traps under the influence of mean field and anharmonic quartic trap potentials. Super-shell structures, which were found in Hartree-Fock calculations, are calculated analytically within periodic orbit theory as well as from WKB calculations. For attractive interactions, the underlying level densities are crucial for pairing and super-shell structures in gaps are predicted. 
0704.00386	Quantum non-local effects with Bose-Einstein condensates	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Franck Laloë (LKB - Lhomond), William J. Mullin (UMASS)	 Abstract: We study theoretically the properties of two Bose-Einstein condensates in different spin states, represented by a double Fock state. Individual measurements of the spins of the particles are performed in transverse directions, giving access to the relative phase of the condensates. Initially, this phase is completely undefined, and the first measurements provide random results. But a fixed value of this phase rapidly emerges under the effect of the successive quantum measurements, giving rise to a quasi-classical situation where all spins have parallel transverse orientations. If the number of measurements reaches its maximum (the number of particles), quantum effects show up again, giving rise to violations of Bell type inequalities. The violation of BCHSH inequalities with an arbitrarily large number of spins may be comparable (or even equal) to that obtained with two spins. 
0704.00387	Low mass visual binaries in the solar neighbourhood: The case of  HD141272	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T. Eisenbeiss, A. Seifahrt, M. Mugrauer, T.O.B. Schmidt, R. Neuhaeuser, T. Roell	 Abstract: We search for stellar and substellar companions of young nearby stars to investigate stellar multiplicity and formation of stellar and substellar companions. We detect common proper-motion companions of stars via multi-epoch imaging. Their companionship is finally confirmed with photometry and spectroscopy. Here we report the discovery of a new co-moving (13 sigma) stellar companion ~17.8 arcsec (350 AU in projected separation) north of the nearby star HD141272 (21 pc). With EMMI/NTT optical spectroscopy we determined the spectral type of the companion to be M3+-0.5V. The derived spectral type as well as the near infrared photometry of the companion are both fully consistent with a 0.26+-0.07 Msol dwarf located at the distance of HD141272 (21 pc). Furthermore the photometry data rules out the pre-main sequence status, since the system is consistent with the ZAMS of the Pleiades. 
0704.00388	Sterile neutrinos at the CNGS	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:A. Donini, M. Maltoni, D. Meloni, P. Migliozzi, F. Terranova	 Abstract: We study the potential of the CNGS beam in constraining the parameter space of a model with one sterile neutrino separated from three active ones by an $\mathcal{O}(\eVq)$ mass-squared difference, $\Dmq_\Sbl$. We perform our analysis using the OPERA detector as a reference (our analysis can be upgraded including a detailed simulation of the ICARUS detector). We point out that the channel with the largest potential to constrain the sterile neutrino parameter space at the CNGS beam is $\nu_\mu \to \nu_\tau$. The reason for that is twofold: first, the active-sterile mixing angle that governs this oscillation is the less constrained by present experiments; second, this is the signal for which both OPERA and ICARUS have been designed, and thus benefits from an extremely low background. In our analysis we also took into account $\nu_\mu \to \nu_e$ oscillations. We find that the CNGS potential to look for sterile neutrinos is limited with nominal intensity of the beam, but it is significantly enhanced with a factor 2 to 10 increase in the neutrino flux. Data from both channels allow us, in this case, to constrain further the four-neutrino model parameter space. Our results hold for any value of $\Dmq_\Sbl \gtrsim 0.1 \eVq$, \textit{i.e.} when oscillations driven by this mass-squared difference are averaged. We have also checked that the bound on $\theta_{13}$ that can be put at the CNGS is not affected by the possible existence of sterile neutrinos. 
0704.00389	Evolution of the Carter constant for inspirals into a black hole: effect  of the black hole quadrupole	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Eanna E. Flanagan, Tanja Hinderer	 Abstract: We analyze the effect of gravitational radiation reaction on generic orbits around a body with an axisymmetric mass quadrupole moment Q to linear order in Q, to the leading post-Newtonian order, and to linear order in the mass ratio. This system admits three constants of the motion in absence of radiation reaction: energy, angular momentum, and a third constant analogous to the Carter constant. We compute instantaneous and time-averaged rates of change of these three constants. For a point particle orbiting a black hole, Ryan has computed the leading order evolution of the orbit's Carter constant, which is linear in the spin. Our result, when combined with an interaction quadratic in the spin (the coupling of the black hole's spin to its own radiation reaction field), gives the next to leading order evolution. The effect of the quadrupole, like that of the linear spin term, is to circularize eccentric orbits and to drive the orbital plane towards antialignment with the symmetry axis. In addition we consider a system of two point masses where one body has a single mass multipole or current multipole. To linear order in the mass ratio, to linear order in the multipole, and to the leading post-Newtonian order, we show that there does not exist an analog of the Carter constant for such a system (except for the cases of spin and mass quadrupole). With mild additional assumptions, this result falsifies the conjecture that all vacuum, axisymmetric spacetimes posess a third constant of geodesic motion. 
0704.00390	Dual billiards, Fagnano orbits and regular polygons	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Serge Troubetzkoy (CPT, Iml, Frumam)	 Abstract: We study the notion of Fagnano orbits for dual polygonal billiards. We used them to characterize regular polygons and we study the iteration of the developing map. 
0704.00391	Exactly solvable spin dynamics of an electron coupled to large number of  nuclei and the electron-nuclear spin echo in a quantum dot	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:G. G. Kozlov	 Abstract: The model considered in the paper is used nowadays to describe spin dynamics of quantum dots after optical excitation. Based on the exact diagonalization of a model Hamiltonian, we solve the problems of the electron spin polarization decay and magnetic field dependence of the steady state polarization. The important role of the nuclear state is shown and methods of its calculation for different regimes of optical excitation are proposed. The effect of spin echo observed after application of the magnetic field $\pi$-pulse is predicted. 
0704.00392	Simulation of Robustness against Lesions of Cortical Networks	Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)	Authors:Marcus Kaiser, Robert Martin, Peter Andras, Malcolm P. Young	 Abstract: Structure entails function and thus a structural description of the brain will help to understand its function and may provide insights into many properties of brain systems, from their robustness and recovery from damage, to their dynamics and even their evolution. Advances in the analysis of complex networks provide useful new approaches to understanding structural and functional properties of brain networks. Structural properties of networks recently described allow their characterization as small-world, random (exponential) and scale-free. They complement the set of other properties that have been explored in the context of brain connectivity, such as topology, hodology, clustering, and hierarchical organization. Here we apply new network analysis methods to cortical inter-areal connectivity networks for the cat and macaque brains. We compare these corticocortical fibre networks to benchmark rewired, small-world, scale-free and random networks, using two analysis strategies, in which we measure the effects of the removal of nodes and connections on the structural properties of the cortical networks. The brain networks' structural decay is in most respects similar to that of scale-free networks. The results implicate highly connected hub-nodes and bottleneck connections as structural basis for some of the conditional robustness of brain systems. This informs the understanding of the development of brain networks' connectivity. 
0704.00393	A thermodynamic model for the melting of supported metal nanoparticles	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:S. C. Hendy	 Abstract: We construct a simple thermodynamic model to describe the melting of a supported metal nanoparticle with a spherically curved free surface both with and without surface melting. We use the model to investigate the results of recent molecular dynamics simulations, which suggest the melting temperature of a supported metal particle is the same as that of a free spherical particle with the same surface curvature. Our model shows that this is only the case when the contact angles of the supported solid and liquid particles are similar. This is also the case for the temperature at which surface melting begins. 
0704.00394	Average optimality for risk-sensitive control with general state space	Risk Management (q-fin.RM)	Authors:Anna Jaśkiewicz	 Abstract: This paper deals with discrete-time Markov control processes on a general state space. A long-run risk-sensitive average cost criterion is used as a performance measure. The one-step cost function is nonnegative and possibly unbounded. Using the vanishing discount factor approach, the optimality inequality and an optimal stationary strategy for the decision maker are established. 
0704.00395	A Study of $B_{d}^0 \to J/Ψη^{(\prime)}$ Decays in the pQCD  Approach	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Xin Liu, Zhen-Jun Xiao, Hui-Sheng Wang	 Abstract: Motivated by the very recent measurement of the branching ratio of ${B_d^0} \to J/\psi \eta$ decay, we calculate the branching ratios of ${B_d}^0 \to J/\psi \eta$ and ${B_d}^0 \to J/\Psi \eta'$ decays in the perturbative QCD (pQCD) approach. The pQCD predictions for the branching ratios of considered decays are: $BR(B_d^0 \to J/\Psi \eta) = (1.96 ^{+9.68}_{-0.65}) \times 10^{-6}$, which is consistent with the first experimental measurement within errors; while $BR(B_d^0 \to J/\Psi \eta') = (1.09 ^{+3.76}_{-0.25}) \times 10^{-6}$, very similar with $B_d^0 \to \jpsi \eta$ decay and can be tested by the forthcoming LHC experiments. The measurements of these decay channels may help us to understand the QCD dynamics in the corresponding energy scale, especially the reliability of pQCD approach to these kinds of B meson decays. 
0704.00396	Finite-temperature phase transitions in a two-dimensional boson Hubbard  model	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Min-Chul Cha, Ji-Woo Lee	 Abstract: We study finite-temperature phase transitions in a two-dimensional boson Hubbard model with zero-point quantum fluctuations via Monte Carlo simulations of quantum rotor model, and construct the corresponding phase diagram. Compressibility shows a thermally activated gapped behavior in the insulating regime. Finite-size scaling of the superfluid stiffness clearly shows the nature of the Kosterlitz-Thouless transition. The transition temperature, $T_c$, confirms a scaling relation $T_c \propto \rho_0^x$ with $x=1.0$. Some evidences of anomalous quantum behavior at low temperatures are presented. 
0704.00397	Conditional generation of path-entangled optical NOON states	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Anne E. B. Nielsen, Klaus Molmer	 Abstract: We propose a measurement protocol to generate path-entangled NOON states conditionally from two pulsed type II optical parametric oscillators. We calculate the fidelity of the produced states and the success probability of the protocol. The trigger detectors are assumed to have finite dead time, and for short pulse trigger fields they are modeled as on/off detectors with finite efficiency. Continuous-wave operation of the parametric oscillators is also considered. 
0704.00398	Renewals for exponentially increasing lifetimes, with an application to  digital search trees	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Florian Dennert, Rudolf Grübel	 Abstract: We show that the number of renewals up to time $t$ exhibits distributional fluctuations as $t\to\infty$ if the underlying lifetimes increase at an exponential rate in a distributional sense. This provides a probabilistic explanation for the asymptotics of insertion depth in random trees generated by a bit-comparison strategy from uniform input; we also obtain a representation for the resulting family of limit laws along subsequences. Our approach can also be used to obtain rates of convergence. 
0704.00399	Hawking radiation of linear dilaton black holes	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:G. Clement, J.C. Fabris, G.T. Marques	 Abstract: We compute exactly the semi-classical radiation spectrum for a class of non-asymptotically flat charged dilaton black holes, the so-called linear dilaton black holes. In the high frequency regime, the temperature for these black holes generically agrees with the surface gravity result. In the special case where the black hole is massless, we show that, although the surface gravity remains finite, there is no radiation, in agreement with the fact that massless objects cannot radiate. 
0704.00400	The S-Matrix of AdS/CFT and Yangian Symmetry	Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)	Authors:Niklas Beisert	 Abstract: We review the algebraic construction of the S-matrix of AdS/CFT. We also present its symmetry algebra which turns out to be a Yangian of the centrally extended su(2|2) superalgebra. 
0704.00401	Modelling the Near-IR Spectra of Red Supergiant-dominated Populations	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Lançon, J.S. Gallagher, R. de Grijs, P. Hauschildt, D. Ladjal, M. Mouhcine, L.J. Smith, P.R. Wood, N. Förster Schreiber	 Abstract: We report on recent progress in the modelling of the near-IR spectra of young stellar populations, i.e. populations in which red supergiants (RSGs) are dominant. First, we discuss the determination of fundamental parameters of RSGs using fits to their near-IR spectra with new PHOENIX model spectra; RSG-specific surface abundances are accounted for and effects of the microturbulence parameter are explored. New population synthesis predictions are then described and, as an example, it is shown that the spectra of young star clusters in M82 can be reproduced very well from 0.5 to 2.4 micrometers. We warn of remaining uncertainties in cluster ages. 
0704.00402	Locating the peaks of least-energy solutions to a quasilinear elliptic  Neumann problem	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Yi Li, Chunshan Zhao	 Abstract: In this paper we study the shape of least-energy solutions to a singularly perturbed quasilinear problem with homogeneous Neumann boundary condition. We use an intrinsic variation method to show that at limit, the global maximum point of least-energy solutions goes to a point on the boundary faster than the linear rate and this point on the boundary approaches to a point where the mean curvature of the boundary achieves its maximum. We also give a complete proof of exponential decay of least-energy solutions. 
0704.00403	Review: Semiconductor Quantum Light Sources	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Andrew J Shields	 Abstract: Lasers and LEDs display a statistical distribution in the number of photons emitted in a given time interval. New applications exploiting the quantum properties of light require sources for which either individual photons, or pairs, are generated in a regulated stream. Here we review recent research on single-photon sources based on the emission of a single semiconductor quantum dot. In just a few years remarkable progress has been made in generating indistinguishable single-photons and entangled photon pairs using such structures. It suggests it may be possible to realise compact, robust, LED-like semiconductor devices for quantum light generation. 
0704.00404	To the origin of the difference of FSI phases in $B\toππ$ and  $B\toρρ$ decays	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:A.B.Kaidalov, M.I.Vysotsky	 Abstract: The final state interactions (FSI) model in which soft rescattering of low mass intermediate states dominates is suggested. It explains why the strong interaction phases are large in the $B_d\to\pi\pi$ channel and are considerably smaller in the $B_d\to\rho\rho$ one. Direct CP asymmetries of $B_d\to\pi\pi$ decays which are determined by FSI phases are considered as well. 
0704.00405	An invariance principle for semimartingale reflecting Brownian motions  in domains with piecewise smooth boundaries	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:W. Kang, R. J. Williams	 Abstract: Semimartingale reflecting Brownian motions (SRBMs) living in the closures of domains with piecewise smooth boundaries are of interest in applied probability because of their role as heavy traffic approximations for some stochastic networks. In this paper, assuming certain conditions on the domains and directions of reflection, a perturbation result, or invariance principle, for SRBMs is proved. This provides sufficient conditions for a process that satisfies the definition of an SRBM, except for small random perturbations in the defining conditions, to be close in distribution to an SRBM. A crucial ingredient in the proof of this result is an oscillation inequality for solutions of a perturbed Skorokhod problem. We use the invariance principle to show weak existence of SRBMs under mild conditions. We also use the invariance principle, in conjunction with known uniqueness results for SRBMs, to give some sufficient conditions for validating approximations involving (i) SRBMs in convex polyhedrons with a constant reflection vector field on each face of the polyhedron, and (ii) SRBMs in bounded domains with piecewise smooth boundaries and possibly nonconstant reflection vector fields on the boundary surfaces. 
0704.00406	Finite Drude weight for 1D low temperature conductors	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Dariush Heidarian, Sandro Sorella	 Abstract: We apply well established finite temperature Quantum Monte Carlo techniques to one dimensional Bose systems with soft and hardcore constraint, as well as to spinless fermion systems. We give clear and robust numerical evidence that, as expected, no superfluid density for Bosons or Meissner fraction for fermions. is possible at {\em any} non zero temperature in one dimensional interacting Bose or fermi lattice models, whereas a finite Drude weight is generally observed in gapless systems, in partial disagreement to previous expectations. 
0704.00407	Density dependent hadronic models and the relation between neutron stars  and neutron skin thickness	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:S.S. Avancini, J.R. Marinelli, D.P. Menezes, M.M.W. de Moraes, C. Providência	 Abstract: In the present work we investigate the main differences in the lead neutron skin thickness, binding energy, surface energy and density profiles obtained with two different density dependent relativistic hadronic models, within the Thomas-Fermi approximation. We show that the asymmetry parameter for low momentum transfer polarized electron scattering is not sensitive to the model parametrization differences. 
0704.00408	Photoconductance of organic single-molecule contacts	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:J. K. Viljas, F. Pauly, J. C. Cuevas	 Abstract: We study the dc conductance of organic single-molecule contacts in the presence of external electromagnetic radiation (photoconductance). In agreement with previous predictions, we find that the radiation can lead to large enhancements of the conductance of such contacts by bringing off-resonant levels into resonance through photoassisted processes. In our analysis we make use of the simplifying fact that, under certain assumptions, the photoconductance can be expressed in terms of the transmission function in the absence of the radiation. The conductance enhancement is demonstrated for oligophenylene molecules between gold electrodes, whose electronic structure is calculated based on density-functional theory. It is shown that the exponential decay of the conductance with the length of the molecule can be replaced by a length-independent value in the presence of radiation. 
0704.00409	On the over-barrier reflection in quantum mechanics with multiple  degrees of freedom	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:D.G. Levkov, A.G. Panin, S.M. Sibiryakov	 Abstract: We present an analytic example of two dimensional quantum mechanical system, where the exponential suppression of the probability of over-barrier reflection changes non-monotonically with energy. The suppression is minimal at certain "optimal" energies where reflection occurs with exponentially larger probability than at other energies. 
0704.00410	Cyclotron Resonance study of the electron and hole velocity in graphene  monolayers	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:R.S. Deacon, K-C. Chuang, R. J.Nicholas, K.S. Novoselov, A.K. Geim	 Abstract: We report studies of cyclotron resonance in monolayer graphene. Cyclotron resonance is detected using the photoconductive response of the sample for several different Landau level occupancies. The experiments measure an electron velocity at the K- (Dirac) point of $c_{K}^{*}$ = 1.093 x 10$^{6}$ ms$^{-1}$ and in addition detect a significant asymmetry between the electron and hole bands, leading to a difference in the electron and hole velocities of 5% by energies of 125 meV away from the Dirac point. 
0704.00411	Molecular circuits based on graphene nano-ribbon junctions	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Zhiping Xu	 Abstract: Graphene nano-ribbons junctions based electronic devices are proposed in this Letter. Non-equilibrium Green function calculations show that nano-ribbon junctions tailored from single layer graphene with different edge shape and width can act as metal-semiconductor junctions and quantum dots can be implemented. In virtue of the possibilities of patterning monolayer graphene down to atomic precision, these structures, quite different from the previously reported two-dimensional bulk graphene or carbon nanotube devices, are expected to be used as the building blocks of the future nano-electronics. 
0704.00412	Unit groups of integral finite group rings with no noncyclic abelian  finite subgroups	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Martin Hertweck	 Abstract: It is shown that in the units of augmentation one of an integral group ring $\mathbb{Z} G$ of a finite group $G$, a noncyclic subgroup of order $p^{2}$, for some odd prime $p$, exists only if such a subgroup exists in $G$. The corresponding statement for $p=2$ holds by the Brauer--Suzuki theorem, as recently observed by W. Kimmerle. 
0704.00413	Exotic Hadron in Pole-dominated QCD Sum Rules	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Toru Kojo, Daisuke Jido, Arata Hayashigaki	 Abstract: We study pentaquark $\Theta^{+} (I=0,J=1/2)$ in the QCD sum rules emphasizing that we can not extract any properties of the pentaquark outside of the Borel window. To find the appropriate Borel window, we prepare a favorable set up of the correlators and carry out the operator product expansion up to dimension 15 within factorization hypothesis. Our procedures reduce the unwanted high energy contaminations and enhance the low energy correlation. In the Borel window, independent analyses for the chiral-even and odd sum rules give the consistent values of the $\Theta^+$ mass, $1.68\pm0.22$ GeV, and the residue. The parity is found to be {\it positive}. 
0704.00414	Leaky modes of a left-handed slab	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Antoine Moreau (LASMEA), Didier Felbacq (GES)	 Abstract: Using complex plane analysis we show that left-handed slab may support either leaky slab waves, which are backward because of negative refraction, or leaky surface waves, which are backward or forward depending on the propagation direction of the surface wave itself. Moreover, there is a general connection between the reflection coefficient of the left-handed slab and the one of the corresponding right-handed slab (with opposite permittivity and permeability) so that leaky slab modes are excited for the same angle of incidence of the impinging beam for both structures. Many negative giant lateral shifts can be explained by the excitation of these leaky modes. 
0704.00415	Coulomb blockade of field emission from nanoscale conductors	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:O. E. Raichev	 Abstract: Theoretical description of the field emission of electrons from nanoscale objects weakly coupled to the cathode is presented. It is shown that the field- emission current increases in a step-like fashion due to single-electron charging which leads to abrupt changes of the effective electric field responsible for the field emission. A detailed consideration of the current-voltage characteristics is carried out for a nanocluster modelled by a metallic spherical particle in the close vicinity of the cathode and for a cylindrical silicon nanowire grown on the cathode surface. 
0704.00416	Origamis with non congruence Veech groups	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Gabriela Schmithuesen	 Abstract: As main result we show that for each g > 1 there is some translation surface of genus g whose Veech group is a non congruence subgroup of SL(2,Z). We use origamis/square-tiled surfaces to produce our examples. The article is divided into two parts: In the first part we introduce translation surfaces, origamis, Veech groups and Teichmueller curves and show for two origamis in genus 2 that their Veech groups are non congruence groups; in the second part we provide a technique that produces sequences of origamis whose Veech groups are decreasing. This is used to prove the main result. 
0704.00417	Thermodynamic Stability - A note on a footnote in Ruelle's book	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Bernhard Baumgartner	 Abstract: Thermodynamic stable interaction pair potentials which are not of the form ``positive function + real continuous function of positive type'' are presented in dimension one. Construction of such a potential in dimension two is sketched. These constructions use only elementary calculations. The mathematical background is discussed separately. 
0704.00418	Entanglement entropy at infinite randomness fixed points in higher  dimensions	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Yu-Cheng Lin, Ferenc Igloi, Heiko Rieger	 Abstract: The entanglement entropy of the two-dimensional random transverse Ising model is studied with a numerical implementation of the strong disorder renormalization group. The asymptotic behavior of the entropy per surface area diverges at, and only at, the quantum phase transition that is governed by an infinite randomness fixed point. Here we identify a double-logarithmic multiplicative correction to the area law for the entanglement entropy. This contrasts with the pure area law valid at the infinite randomness fixed point in the diluted transverse Ising model in higher dimensions. 
0704.00419	Ultrasound attenuation of superfluid $^{3}$He in aerogel	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:H.C. Choi, N. Masuhara, B.H. Moon, P. Bhupathi, M.W. Meisel, Y. Lee, N. Mulders, S. Higashitani, M. Miura, K. Nagai	 Abstract: We have performed longitudinal ultrasound (9.5 MHz) attenuation measurements in the B-phase of superfluid $^3$He in 98% porosity aerogel down to the zero temperature limit for a wide range of pressures at zero magnetic field. The absolute attenuation was determined by direct transmission of sound pulses. Compared to the bulk fluid, our results revealed a drastically different behavior in attenuation, which is consistent with theoretical accounts with gapless excitations and a collision drag effect. 
0704.00420	The Hourglass - Consequences of Pure Hamiltonian Evolution of a  Radiating System	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Donald McCartor	 Abstract: Hourglass is the name given here to a formal isolated quantum system that can radiate. Starting from a time when it defines the system it represents clearly and no radiation is present, it is given straightforward Hamiltonian evolution. The question of what significance hourglasses have is raised, and this question is proposed to be more consequential than the measurement problem. 
0704.00421	The Sigma-D Relation for Planetary Nebulae: Preliminary Analysis	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D. Urosevic, B. Vukotic, B. Arbutina, D. Ilic	 Abstract: An analysis of the relation between radio surface brightness and diameter, so-called Sigma-D relation, for planetary nebulae (PNe) is presented: i) the theoretical Sigma-D relation for the evolution of bremsstrahlung surface brightness is derived; ii) contrary to the results obtained earlier for the Galactic supernova remnant (SNR) samples, our results show that the updated sample of Galactic PNe does not severely suffer from volume selection effect - Malmquist bias (same as for the extragalactic SNR samples) and; iii) we conclude that the empirical Sigma-D relation for PNe derived in this paper is not useful for valid determination of distances for all observed PNe with unknown distances. 
0704.00422	Polarization conversion in a silica microsphere	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Pablo Bianucci, Chris Fietz, John W. Robertson, Gennady Shvets, Chih-Kang Shih	 Abstract: We experimentally demonstrate controlled polarization-selective phenomena in a whispering gallery mode resonator. We observed efficient ($\approx 75 %$) polarization conversion of light in a silica microsphere coupled to a tapered optical fiber with proper optimization of the polarization of the propagating light. A simple model treating the microsphere as a ring resonator provides a good fit to the observed behavior. 
0704.00423	Limits on WIMP-nucleon interactions with CsI(Tl) crystal detectors	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:H. S. Lee, H. C. Bhang, J. H. Choi, H. Dao, I. S. Hahn, M. J. Hwang, S. W. Jung, W. G. Kang, D. W. Kim, H. J. Kim, S. C. Kim, S. K. Kim, Y. D. Kim, J. W. Kwak, Y. J. Kwon, J. Lee, J. H. Lee, J. I. Lee, M. J. Lee, S. J. Lee, J. Li, X. Li, Y. J. Li, S. S. Myung, S. Ryu, J. H. So, Q. Yue, J. J. Zhu	 Abstract: The Korea Invisible Mass Search(KIMS) experiment presents new limits on WIMP-nucleon cross section using the data from an exposure of 3409 kgd taken with low background CsI(Tl) crystals at Yangyang underground laboratory. The most stringent limit on the spin dependent interaction for pure proton case is obtained. The DAMA signal region for both spin independent and spin dependent interactions for the WIMP mass higher than 20 GeV/c^2are excluded by the single experiment with crystal scintillators. 
0704.00424	Stopping effects in U+U collisions with a beam energy of 520 MeV/nucleon	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:Xiao-Feng Luo, Xin Dong, Ming Shao, Ke-Jun Wu, Cheng Li, Hong-Fang Chen, Hu-Shan Xu	 Abstract: A Relativistic Transport Model (ART1.0) is applied to simulate the stopping effects in tip-tip and body-body U+U collisions, at a beam kinetic energy of 520 MeV/nucleon. Our simulation results have demonstrated that both central collisions of the two extreme orientations can achieve full stopping, and also form a bulk of hot, dense nuclear matter with a sufficiently large volume and long duration, due to the largely deformed uranium nuclei. The nucleon sideward flow in the tip-tip collisions is nearly 3 times larger than that in body-body ones at normalized impact parameter $b/b_{max}<0.5$, and that the body-body central collisions have a largest negative nucleon elliptic flow $v_{2}=-12%$ in contrast to zero in tip-tip ones. Thus the extreme circumstance and the novel experimental observables in tip-tip and body-body collisions can provide a good condition and sensitive probe to study the nuclear EoS, respectively. The Cooling Storage Ring (CSR) External Target Facility (ETF) to be built at Lanzhou, China, delivering the uranium beam up to 520 MeV/nucleon is expected to make significant contribution to explore the nuclear equation of state (EoS). 
0704.00425	QED for fields obeying a square root operator equation	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Tobias Gleim	 Abstract: Instead of using local field equations - like the Dirac equation for spin-1/2 and the Klein-Gordon equation for spin-0 particles - one could try to use non-local field equations in order to describe scattering processes. The latter equations can be obtained by means of the relativistic energy together with the correspondence principle, resulting in equations with a square root operator. By coupling them to an electromagnetic field and expanding the square root (and taking into account terms of quadratic order in the electromagnetic coupling constant e), it is possible to calculate scattering matrix elements within the framework of quantum electrodynamics, e.g. like those for Compton scattering or for the scattering of two identical particles. This will be done here for the scalar case. These results are then compared with the corresponding ones based on the Klein-Gordon equation. A proposal of how to transfer these reflections to the spin-1/2 case is also presented. 
0704.00426	Feedback from first radiation sources: H- photodissociation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Leonid Chuzhoy, Michael Kuhlen, Paul R. Shapiro	 Abstract: During the epoch of reionization, the formation of radiation sources is accompanied by the growth of a H- photodissociating flux. We estimate the impact of this flux on the formation of molecular hydrogen and cooling in the first galaxies, assuming different types of radiation sources (e.g. Pop II and Pop III stars, miniquasars). We find that H- photodissociation reduces the formation of H2 molecules by a factor of ~1+1000k_s*x/(f_esc*delta), where x is the mean ionized fraction in the IGM, f_esc is the fraction of ionizing photons that escape from their progenitor halos, delta is the local gas overdensity and k_s is an order unity constant which depends on the type of radiation source. By the time a significant fraction of the universe becomes ionized, H- photodissociation may significantly reduce the H2 abundance and, with it, the primordial star formation rate, delaying the progress of reionization. 
0704.00427	The 3D +-J Ising model at the ferromagnetic transition line	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Martin Hasenbusch, Francesco Parisen Toldin, Andrea Pelissetto, Ettore Vicari	 Abstract: We study the critical behavior of the three-dimensional $\pm J$ Ising model [with a random-exchange probability $P(J_{xy}) = p \delta(J_{xy} - J) + (1-p) \delta(J_{xy} + J)$] at the transition line between the paramagnetic and ferromagnetic phase, which extends from $p=1$ to a multicritical (Nishimori) point at $p=p_N\approx 0.767$. By a finite-size scaling analysis of Monte Carlo simulations at various values of $p$ in the region $p_N<p<1$, we provide strong numerical evidence that the critical behavior along the ferromagnetic transition line belongs to the same universality class as the three-dimensional randomly-dilute Ising model. We obtain the results $\nu=0.682(3)$ and $\eta=0.036(2)$ for the critical exponents, which are consistent with the estimates $\nu=0.683(2)$ and $\eta=0.036(1)$ at the transition of randomly-dilute Ising models. 
0704.00428	Star Formation in the Bok Globule CB54	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:David R. Ciardi, Cynthia Gomez Martin	 Abstract: We present mid-infrared (10.4 \micron, 11.7 \micron, and 18.3 \micron) imaging intended to locate and characterize the suspected protostellar components within the Bok globule CB54. We detect and confirm the protostellar status for the near-infrared source CB54YC1-II. The mid-infrared luminosity for CB54YC1-II was found to be $L_{midir} \approx 8 L_\sun$, and we estimate a central source mass of $M_* \approx 0.8 M_\sun$ (for a mass accretion rate of ${\dot M}=10^{-6} M_\sun yr^{-1}$). CB54 harbors another near-infrared source (CB54YC1-I), which was not detected by our observations. The non-detection is consistent with CB54YC1-I being a highly extinguished embedded young A or B star or a background G or F giant. An alternative explanation for CB54YC1-I is that the source is an embedded protostar viewed at an extremely high inclination angle, and the near-infrared detections are not of the central protostar, but of light scattered by the accretion disk into our line of sight. In addition, we have discovered three new mid-infrared sources, which are spatially coincident with the previously known dense core in CB54. The source temperatures ($\sim100$K) and association of the mid-infrared sources with the dense core suggests that these mid-infrared objects may be embedded class 0 protostars. 
0704.00429	Quantitative Resolution to some "Absolute Discrepancies" in Cancer  Theories: a View from Phage lambda Genetic Switch	Subcellular Processes (q-bio.SC)	Authors:P. Ao	 Abstract: Is it possible to understand cancer? Or more specifically, is it possible to understand cancer from genetic side? There already many answers in literature. The most optimistic one has claimed that it is mission-possible. Duesberg and his colleagues reviewed the impressive amount of research results on cancer accumulated over 100 years. It confirms the a general opinion that considering all available experimental results and clinical observations there is no cancer theory without major difficulties, including the prevailing gene-based cancer theories. They have then listed 9 "absolute discrepancies" for such cancer theory. In this letter the quantitative evidence against one of their major reasons for dismissing mutation cancer theory, by both in vivo experiment and a first principle computation, is explicitly pointed out. 
0704.00430	Reduced phase space and toric variety coordinatizations of Delzant  spaces	Symplectic Geometry (math.SG)	Authors:J.J. Duistermaat, A. Pelayo	 Abstract: In this note we describe the natural coordinatizations of a Delzant space defined as a reduced phase space (symplectic geometry view-point) and give explicit formulas for the coordinate transformations. For each fixed point of the torus action on the Delzant polytope, we have a maximal coordinatization of an open cell in the Delzant space which contains the fixed point. This cell is equal to the domain of definition of one of the natural coordinatizations of the Delzant space as a toric variety (complex algebraic geometry view-point), and we give an explicit formula for the toric variety coordinates in terms of the reduced phase space coordinates. We use considerations in the maximal coordinate neighborhoods to give simple proofs of some of the basic facts about the Delzant space, as a reduced phase space, and as a toric variety. These can be viewed as a first application of the coordinatizations, and serve to make the presentation more self-contained. 
0704.00431	Fragmentation of general relativistic quasi-toroidal polytropes	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Burkhard Zink, Nikolaos Stergioulas, Ian Hawke, Christian D. Ott, Erik Schnetter, Ewald Mueller	 Abstract: We investigate the role of rotational instabilities in the context of black hole formation in relativistic stars. In addition to the standard scenario - an axially symmetric dynamical instability forming a horizon at the star's center - the recently found low-$T/|W|$ instabilities are shown to lead to fragmentation and off-center horizon formation in differentially rotating stars. This process might be an alternative pathway to produce SMBHs from supermassive stars with inefficient angular momentum transport. 
0704.00432	A Survey of Huebschmann and Stasheff's Paper: Formal Solution of the  Master Equation via HPT and Deformation Theory	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Fusun Akman, Lucian M. Ionescu	 Abstract: These notes, based on the paper "Formal Solution of the Master Equation via HPT and Deformation Theory" by Huebschmann and Stasheff, were prepared for a series of talks at Illinois State University with the intention of applying Homological Perturbation Theory to the derived bracket constructions of Kosmann-Schwarzbach and T. Voronov, and eventually writing Part II of the paper "Higher Derived Brackets and Deformation Theory I" by the present authors. 
0704.00433	A variational formulation of electrodynamics with external sources	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Antonio De Nicola, Wlodzimierz M. Tulczyjew	 Abstract: We present a variational formulation of electrodynamics using de Rham even and odd differential forms. Our formulation relies on a variational principle more complete than the Hamilton principle and thus leads to field equations with external sources and permits the derivation of the constitutive relations. We interpret a domain in space-time as an odd de Rham 4-current. This permits a treatment of different types of boundary problems in an unified way. In particular we obtain a smooth transition to the infinitesimal version by using a current with a one point support. 
0704.00434	Protein and ionic surfactants - promoters and inhibitors of contact line  pinning	Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)	Authors:Viatcheslav V. Berejnov	 Abstract: We report a new effect of surfactants in pinning a drop contact line, specifically that lysozyme promotes while lauryl sulfate inhibits pinning. We explain the pinning disparity assuming difference in wetting: the protein-laden drop wets a "clean" surface and the surfactant-laden drop wets an auto-precursored surface. 
0704.00435	Type D Einstein spacetimes in higher dimensions	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Vojtech Pravda, Alena Pravdova, Marcello Ortaggio	 Abstract: We show that all static spacetimes in higher dimensions are of Weyl types G, I_i, D or O. This applies also to stationary spacetimes if additional conditions are fulfilled, as for most known black hole/ring solutions. (The conclusions change when the Killing generator becomes null, such as at Killing horizons.) Next we demonstrate that the same Weyl types characterize warped product spacetimes with a one-dimensional Lorentzian (timelike) factor, whereas warped spacetimes with a two-dimensional Lorentzian factor are restricted to the types D or O. By exploring the Bianchi identities, we then analyze the simplest non-trivial case from the above classes - type D vacuum spacetimes, possibly with a cosmological constant, dropping, however, the assumptions that the spacetime is static, stationary or warped. It is shown that for ``generic'' type D vacuum spacetimes the corresponding principal null directions are geodetic in any dimension (this applies also to type II spacetimes). For n>=5, however, there may exist particular cases of type D spacetimes which admit non-geodetic multiple principal null directions and we present such examples in any n>=7. Further studies are restricted to five dimensions, where the type D Weyl tensor is described by a 3x3 matrix \Phi_{ij}. In the case with ``twistfree'' (A_{ij}=0) principal null geodesics we show that in a ``generic'' case \Phi_{ij} is symmetric and eigenvectors of \Phi_{ij} coincide with those of the expansion matrix S_{ij}, providing us with three preferred spacelike directions of the spacetime. Similar results are also obtained when relaxing the twistfree condition and assuming instead that \Phi_{ij} is symmetric. The n=5 Myers-Perry black hole and Kerr-NUT-AdS metrics in arbitrary dimension are briefly studied as specific examples of type D vacuum spacetime. 
0704.00436	Eigen Equation of the Nonlinear Spinor	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Ying-Qiu Gu, Ta-tsien Li	 Abstract: How to effectively solve the eigen solutions of the nonlinear spinor field equation coupling with some other interaction fields is important to understand the behavior of the elementary particles. In this paper, we derive a simplified form of the eigen equation of the nonlinear spinor, and then propose a scheme to solve their numerical solutions. This simplified equation has elegant and neat structure, which is more convenient for both theoretical analysis and numerical computation. 
0704.00437	Measurement of B(D_S^+ --> ell^+ nu) and the Decay Constant f_D_{S^+}	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:CLEO Collaboration: T. K. Pedlar, et al	 Abstract: We examine e+e- --> Ds- Ds*+ and Ds*- Ds+ interactions at 4170 MeV using the CLEO-c detector in order to measure the decay constant fDs+. We use the Ds+ --> l+ nu channel, where the l+ designates either a mu+ or a tau+, when the tau+ --> pi+ nu. Analyzing both modes independently, we determine B(Ds+ --> mu+ nu) = (0.594 +- 0.066 +- 0.031)%, and B(Ds+ --> tau+ nu) = (8.0 +- 1.3 +- 0.4)%. We also analyze them simultaneously to find an effective value of B{eff}(Ds+ --> mu+ nu) = (0.638 +- 0.059 +- 0.033)% and extract fDs = (274 +- 13 +- 7) MeV. Combining with our previous determination of B(D+ -> mu+ nu), we also find the ratio fDs/fD+ = 1.23 +- 0.11 +- 0.04. We compare to current theoretical estimates. Finally, we find B(Ds+ --> e+ nu) < 1.3 x10^{-4} at 90% confidence level. 
0704.00438	Broadening the Higgs Boson with Right-Handed Neutrinos and a Higher  Dimension Operator at the Electroweak Scale	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Michael L. Graesser	 Abstract: The existence of certain TeV suppressed higher-dimension operators may open up new decay channels for the Higgs boson to decay into lighter right-handed neutrinos. These channels may dominate over all other channels if the Higgs boson is light. For a Higgs boson mass larger than $2 m_W$ the new decays are subdominant yet still of interest. The right-handed neutrinos have macroscopic decay lengths and decay mostly into final states containing leptons and quarks. A distinguishing collider signature of this scenario is a pair of displaced vertices violating lepton number. A general operator analysis is performed using the minimal flavor violation hypothesis to illustrate that these novel decay processes can occur while remaining consistent with experimental constraints on lepton number violating processes. In this context the question of whether these new decay modes dominate is found to depend crucially on the approximate flavor symmetries of the right-handed neutrinos. 
0704.00439	Coulomb blockade of anyons	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Dmitri V. Averin, James A. Nesteroff	 Abstract: Coulomb interaction turns anyonic quasiparticles of a primary quantum Hall liquid with filling factor $\nu =1/(2m+1)$ into hard-core anyons. We have developed a model of coherent transport of such quasiparticles in systems of multiple antidots by extending the Wigner-Jordan description of 1D abelian anyons to tunneling problems. We show that the anyonic exchange statistics manifests itself in tunneling conductance even in the {\em absence} of quasiparticle exchanges. In particular, it can be seen as a non-vanishing resonant peak associated with quasiparticle tunneling through a line of three antidots. 
0704.00440	Dynamics of a quantum phase transition in a ferromagnetic Bose-Einstein  condensate	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Bogdan Damski, Wojciech H. Zurek	 Abstract: We discuss dynamics of a slow quantum phase transition in a spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensate. We determine analytically the scaling properties of the system magnetization and verify them with numerical simulations in a one dimensional model. 
0704.00441	Evidence for a planetary companion around a nearby young star	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. Setiawan (1), P. Weise (1), Th. Henning (1), R. Launhardt (1), A. Müller (1), J. Rodmann (2) ((1) Max Planck Institute for Astronomy, Heidelberg, Germany, (2) European Space Agency / ESTEC, Noordwijk, The Netherlands)	 Abstract: We report evidence for a planetary companion around the nearby young star HD 70573. The star is a G type dwarf located at a distance of 46 pc with age estimation between 20 and 300 Myrs. We carried out spectroscopic observations of this star with FEROS at the 2.2 m MPG/ESO telescope at La Silla. Our spectroscopic analysis yields a spectral type of G1-1.5V and an age of about 100 Myrs. Variations in stellar radial velocity of HD 70573 have been monitored since December 2003 until January 2007. The velocity accuracy of FEROS within this period is about 10 m/s. HD 70573 shows a radial velocity variation with a period of 852 +/- 12 days and a semi-amplitude of 149 +/- 6 m/s. The period of this variation is significantly longer than its rotational period, which is 3.3 days. Based on the analysis of the Ca II K emission line, Halpha and Teff variation as stellar activity indicators as well as the lack of a correlation between the bisector velocity span and the radial velocity, we can exclude the rotational modulation and non-radial pulsations as the source of the long-period radial velocity variation. Thus, the presence of a low-mass companion around the star provides the best explanation for the observed radial velocity variation. Assuming a primary mass m1=1.0 +/- 0.1 Msun for the host star, we calculated a minimum mass of the companion m2sini of 6.1 Mjup, which lies in the planetary mass regime, and an orbital semi-major axis of 1.76 AU. The orbit of the planet has an eccentricity of e=0.4. The planet discovery around the young star HD 70573 gives an important input for the study of debris disks around young stars and their relation to the presence of planets. 
0704.00442	Quantum electromagnetic X-waves	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Alessandro Ciattoni, Claudio Conti	 Abstract: We show that two distinct quantum states of the electromagnetic field can be associated to a classical vector X wave or a propagation-invariant solution of Maxwell equations. The difference between the two states is of pure quantum mechanical origin since they are internally entangled and disentangled, respectively and can be generated by different linear or nonlinear processes. Detection and generation of Schr\"odinger-cat states comprising two entangled X-waves and their possible applications are discussed. 
0704.00443	Neutron-neutron scattering length from the reaction gamma d --> pi^+ nn  employing chiral perturbation theory	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:V. Lensky, V. Baru, E. Epelbaum, C. Hanhart, J. Haidenbauer, A. Kudryavtsev, Ulf-G. Meißner	 Abstract: We discuss the possibility to extract the neutron-neutron scattering length a_{nn} from experimental spectra on the reaction gamma d --> pi^+ nn. The transition operator is calculated to high accuracy from chiral perturbation theory. We argue that for properly chosen kinematics, the theoretical uncertainty of the method can be as low as 0.1 fm. 
0704.00444	Multiple Unfoldings of Orbifold Singularities: Engineering Geometric  Analogies to Unification	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Jacob L. Bourjaily	 Abstract: Katz and Vafa showed how charged matter can arise geometrically by the deformation of ADE-type orbifold singularities in type IIa, M-theory, and F-theory compactifications. In this paper we use those same basic ingredients, used there to geometrically engineer specific matter representations, here to deform the compactification manifold itself in a way which naturally compliments many features of unified model building. We realize this idea explicitly by deforming a manifold engineered to give rise to an $SU_5$ grand unified model into a one giving rise to the Standard Model. In this framework, the relative local positions of the singularities giving rise to Standard Model fields are specified in terms of the values of a small number of complex structure moduli which deform the original manifold, greatly reducing the arbitrariness of their relative positions. 
0704.00445	Geometrically Engineering the Standard Model: Locally Unfolding Three  Families out of E8	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Jacob L. Bourjaily	 Abstract: This paper extends and builds upon the results of an earlier paper, in which we described how to use the tools of geometrical engineering to deform geometrically-engineered grand unified models into ones with lower symmetry. This top-down unfolding has the advantage that the relative positions of singularities giving rise to the many `low energy' matter fields are related by only a few parameters which deform the geometry of the unified model. And because the relative positions of singularities are necessary to compute the superpotential, for example, this is a framework in which the arbitrariness of geometrically engineered models can be greatly reduced. In our earlier paper, this picture was made concrete for the case of deforming the representations of an SU(5) model into their Standard Model content. In this paper we continue that discussion to show how a geometrically engineered 16 of SO(10) can be unfolded into the Standard Model, and how the three families of the Standard Model uniquely emerge from the unfolding of a single, isolated E8 singularity. 
0704.00446	The classification of surfaces with p_g=q=1 isogenous to a product of  curves	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Giovanna Carnovale, Francesco Polizzi	 Abstract: A projective surface S is said to be isogenous to a product if there exist two smooth curves C, F and a finite group G acting freely on C \times F so that S=(C \times F)/G. In this paper we classify all surfaces with p_g=q=1 which are isogenous to a product. 
0704.00447	Manipulating the rotational properties of a two-component Bose gas	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:J. Christensson (1), S. Bargi (1), K. Karkkainen (1), Y. Yu (1), G. M. Kavoulakis (1), M. Manninen (2), S. M. Reimann (1) ((1) LTH, Lund, (2) Jyvaskyla)	 Abstract: A rotating, two-component Bose-Einstein condensate is shown to exhibit vortices of multiple quantization, which are possible due to the interatomic interactions between the two species. Also, persistent currents are absent in this system. Finally, the order parameter has a very simple structure for a range of angular momenta. 
0704.00448	Giant Planet Migration in Viscous Power-Law Discs	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. G. Edgar	 Abstract: Many extra-solar planets discovered over the past decade are gas giants in tight orbits around their host stars. Due to the difficulties of forming these `hot Jupiters' in situ, they are generally assumed to have migrated to their present orbits through interactions with their nascent discs. In this paper, we present a systematic study of giant planet migration in power law discs. We find that the planetary migration rate is proportional to the disc surface density. This is inconsistent with the assumption that the migration rate is simply the viscous drift speed of the disc. However, this result can be obtained by balancing the angular momentum of the planet with the viscous torque in the disc. We have verified that this result is not affected by adjusting the resolution of the grid, the smoothing length used, or the time at which the planet is released to migrate. 
0704.00449	Worldsheet Instantons and Torsion Curves, Part B: Mirror Symmetry	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Volker Braun, Maximilian Kreuzer, Burt A. Ovrut, Emanuel Scheidegger	 Abstract: We apply mirror symmetry to the problem of counting holomorphic rational curves in a Calabi-Yau threefold X with Z_3 x Z_3 Wilson lines. As we found in Part A [hep-th/0703182], the integral homology group H_2(X,Z)=Z^3 + Z_3 + Z_3 contains torsion curves. Using the B-model on the mirror of X as well as its covering spaces, we compute the instanton numbers. We observe that X is self-mirror even at the quantum level. Using the self-mirror property, we derive the complete prepotential on X, going beyond the results of Part A. In particular, this yields the first example where the instanton number depends on the torsion part of its homology class. Another consequence is that the threefold X provides a non-toric example for the conjectured exchange of torsion subgroups in mirror manifolds. 
0704.00450	Disorder screening near the Mott-Anderson transition	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:M. C. O. Aguiar, V. Dobrosavljevic, E. Abrahams, G. Kotliar	 Abstract: Correlation-driven screening of disorder is studied within the typical-medium dynamical mean-field theory (TMT-DMFT) of the Mott-Anderson transition. In the strongly correlated regime, the site energies epsilon_R^i characterizing the effective disorder potential are strongly renormalized due to the phenomenon of Kondo pinning. This effect produces very strong screening when the interaction U is stronger then disorder W, but applies only to a fraction of the sites in the opposite limit (U<W). 
0704.00451	Electromigrated nanoscale gaps for surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:D.R. Ward, N.K. Grady, C.S. Levin, N.J. Halas, Y. Wu, P. Nordlander, D. Natelson	 Abstract: Single-molecule detection with chemical specificity is a powerful and much desired tool for biology, chemistry, physics, and sensing technologies. Surface-enhanced spectroscopies enable single molecule studies, yet reliable substrates of adequate sensitivity are in short supply. We present a simple, scaleable substrate for surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) incorporating nanometer-scale electromigrated gaps between extended electrodes. Molecules in the nanogap active regions exhibit hallmarks of very high Raman sensitivity, including blinking and spectral diffusion. Electrodynamic simulations show plasmonic focusing, giving electromagnetic enhancements approaching those needed for single-molecule SERS. 
0704.00452	Dramatic Variability of X-ray Absorption Lines in the Black Hole  Candidate Cygnus X-1	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Chulhoon Chang, Wei Cui	 Abstract: We report results from a 30 ks observation of Cygnus X-1 with the High Energy Transmission Grating Spectrometer (HETGS) on board the {\em Chandra X-ray Observatory}. Numerous absorption lines were detected in the HETGS spectrum. The lines are associated with highly ionized Ne, Na, Mg, Al, Si, S, and Fe, some of which have been seen in earlier HETGS observations. Surprisingly, however, we discovered dramatic variability of the lines over the duration of the present observation. For instance, the flux of the Ne X line at 12.14 \AA\ was about $5 \times 10^{-3}$ photons cm$^{-2}$ s$^{-1}$ in the early part of the observation but became subsequently undetectable, with a 99% upper limit of $0.06 \times 10^{-3}$ photons cm$^{-2}$ s$^{-1}$ on the flux of the line. This implies that the line weakened by nearly two orders of magnitude on a timescale of hours. The overall X-ray flux of the source did also vary during the observation but only by 20--30%. For Cyg X-1, the absorption lines are generally attributed to the absorption of X-rays by ionized stellar wind in the binary system. Therefore, they may provide valuable diagnostics on the physical condition of the wind. We discuss the implications of the results. 
0704.00453	Antiferromagnetism-superconductivity competition in electron-doped  cuprates triggered by oxygen reduction	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:P. Richard, M. Neupane, Y.-M. Xu, P. Fournier, S. Li, Pengcheng Dai, Z. Wang, H. Ding	 Abstract: We have performed a systematic angle-resolved photoemission study of as-grown and oxygen-reduced Pr$_{2-x}$Ce$_x$CuO$_4$ and Pr$_{1-x}$LaCe$_{x}$CuO$_4$ electron-doped cuprates. In contrast to the common belief, neither the band filling nor the band parameters are significantly affected by the oxygen reduction process. Instead, we show that the main electronic role of the reduction process is to remove an anisotropic leading edge gap around the Fermi surface. While the nodal leading edge gap is induced by long-range antiferomagnetic order, the origin of the antinodal one remains unclear. 
0704.00454	An Extrasolar Planet Census with a Space-based Microlensing Survey	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D.P. Bennett, J. Anderson, J.-P. Beaulieu, I. Bond, E. Cheng, K. Cook, S. Friedman, B.S. Gaudi, A. Gould, J. Jenkins, R. Kimble, D. Lin, M. Rich, K. Sahu, D. Tenerelli, A. Udalski, P. Yock	 Abstract: A space-based gravitational microlensing exoplanet survey will provide a statistical census of exoplanets with masses down to 0.1 Earth-masses and orbital separations ranging from 0.5AU to infinity. This includes analogs to all the Solar System's planets except for Mercury, as well as most types of planets predicted by planet formation theories. Such a survey will provide results on the frequency of planets around all types of stars except those with short lifetimes. Close-in planets with separations < 0.5 AU are invisible to a space-based microlensing survey, but these can be found by Kepler. Other methods, including ground-based microlensing, cannot approach the comprehensive statistics on the mass and semi-major axis distribution of extrasolar planets that a space-based microlensing survey will provide. The terrestrial planet sensitivity of a ground-based microlensing survey is limited to the vicinity of the Einstein radius at 2-3 AU, and space-based imaging is needed to identify and determine the mass of the planetary host stars for the vast majority of planets discovered by microlensing. Thus, a space-based microlensing survey is likely to be the only way to gain a comprehensive understanding of the nature of planetary systems, which is needed to understand planet formation and habitability. The proposed Microlensing Planet Finder (MPF) mission is an example of a space-based microlensing survey that can accomplish these objectives with proven technology and a cost that fits comfortably under the NASA Discovery Program cost cap. 
0704.00455	USco1606-1935: An Unusually Wide Low-Mass Triple System?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Adam L. Kraus, Lynne A. Hillenbrand (Caltech)	 Abstract: We present photometric, astrometric, and spectroscopic observations of USco160611.9-193532 AB, a candidate ultrawide (~1600 AU), low-mass (M_tot~0.4 M_sun) multiple system in the nearby OB association Upper Scorpius. We conclude that both components are young, comoving members of the association; we also present high-resolution observations which show that the primary is itself a close binary system. If the Aab and B components are gravitationally bound, the system would fall into the small class of young multiple systems which have unusually wide separations as compared to field systems of similar mass. However, we demonstrate that physical association can not be assumed purely on probabilistic grounds for any individual candidate system in this separation range. Analysis of the association's two-point correlation function shows that there is a significant probability (25%) that at least one pair of low-mass association members will be separated in projection by <15", so analysis of the wide binary population in Upper Sco will require a systematic search for all wide systems; the detection of another such pair would represent an excess at the 98% confidence level. 
0704.00456	Particle propagation in cosmological backgrounds	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Daniel Arteaga	 Abstract: We study the quantum propagation of particles in cosmological backgrounds, by considering a doublet of massive scalar fields propagating in an expanding universe, possibly filled with radiation. We focus on the dissipative effects related to the expansion rate. At first order, we recover the expected result that the decay rate is determined by the local temperature. Beyond linear order, the decay rate has an additional contribution governed by the expansion parameter. This latter contribution is present even for stable particles in the vacuum. Finally, we analyze the long time behaviour of the propagator and briefly discuss applications to the trans-Planckian question. 
0704.00457	Quantum analysis of a linear DC SQUID mechanical displacement detector	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:M. P. Blencowe, E. Buks	 Abstract: We provide a quantum analysis of a DC SQUID mechanical displacement detector within the sub-critical Josephson current regime. A segment of the SQUID loop forms the mechanical resonator and motion of the latter is transduced inductively through changes in the flux threading the loop. Expressions are derived for the detector signal response and noise, which are used to evaluate the position and force detection sensitivity. We also investigate cooling of the mechanical resonator due to back reaction noise from the detector. 
0704.00458	Rotation Measures of Extragalactic Sources Behind the Southern Galactic  Plane: New Insights into the Large-Scale Magnetic Field of the Inner Milky  Way	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J.C. Brown, M. Haverkorn, B.M. Gaensler, A.R. Taylor, N.S. Bizunok, N.M. McClure-Griffiths, J.M. Dickey, A.J. Green	 Abstract: We present new Faraday rotation measures (RMs) for 148 extragalactic radio sources behind the southern Galactic plane (253o < l < 356o, |b| < 1.5o), and use these data in combination with published data to probe the large-scale structure of the Milky Way's magnetic field. We show that the magnitudes of these RMs oscillate with longitude in a manner that correlates with the locations of the Galactic spiral arms. The observed pattern in RMs requries the presence of at least one large-scale magnetic reversal in the fourth Galactic quadrant, located between the Sagittarius- Carina and Scutum-Crux spiral arms. To quantitatively compare our measurements to other recent studies, we consider all available extragalactic and pulsar RMs in the region we have surveyed, and jointly fit these data to simple models in which the large-scale field follows the spiral arms. In the best-fitting model, the magnetic field in the fourth Galactic quadrant is directed clockwise in the Sagittarius-Carina spiral arm (as viewed from the North Galactic pole), but is oriented counter- clockwise in the Scutum-Crux arm. This contrasts with recent analyses of pulsar RMs alone, in which the fourth-quadrant field was presumed to be directed counter-clockwise in the Sagittarius- Carina arm. Also in contrast to recent pulsar RM studies, our joint modeling of pulsar and extragalactic RMs demonstrates that large numbers of large-scale magnetic field reversals are not required to account for observations. 
0704.00459	On iterated image size for point-symmetric relations	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Yahya Ould Hamidoune	 Abstract: Let $\Gamma =(V,E)$ be a point-symmetric reflexive relation and let $v\in V$ such that $|\Gamma (v)|$ is finite (and hence $|\Gamma (x)|$ is finite for all $x$, by the transitive action of the group of automorphisms). Let $j\in \N$ be an integer such that $\Gamma ^j(v)\cap \Gamma ^{-}(v)=\{v\}$. Our main result states that $$ |\Gamma ^{j} (v)|\ge | \Gamma ^{j-1} (v)| + |\Gamma (v)|-1.$$ As an application we have $ |\Gamma ^{j} (v)| \ge 1+(|\Gamma (v)|-1)j.$ The last result confirms a recent conjecture of Seymour in the case of vertex-symmetric graphs. Also it gives a short proof for the validity of the Caccetta-H\"aggkvist conjecture for vertex-symmetric graphs and generalizes an additive result of Shepherdson. 
0704.00460	The Kilodegree Extremely Little Telescope (KELT): A Small Robotic  Telescope for Large-Area Synoptic Surveys	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Joshua Pepper (1), Richard W. Pogge (1), D. L. DePoy (1), J. L. Marshall (1), K. Z. Stanek (1), Amelia M. Stutz (2), Shawn Poindexter (1), Robert Siverd (1), Thomas P. O'Brien (1), Mark Trueblood (3), Patricia Trueblood (3) ((1) The Ohio State University Department of Astronomy, (2) University of Arizona Department of Astronomy, (3) Winer Observatory)	 Abstract: The Kilodegree Extremely Little Telescope (KELT) project is a survey for planetary transits of bright stars. It consists of a small-aperture, wide-field automated telescope located at Winer Observatory near Sonoita, Arizona. The telescope surveys a set of 26 x 26 degree fields, together covering about 25% of the Northern sky, targeting stars in the range of 8<V<10 mag, searching for transits by close-in Jupiters. This paper describes the system hardware and software and discusses the quality of the observations. We show that KELT is able to achieve the necessary photometric precision to detect planetary transits around solar-type main sequence stars. 
0704.00461	Entanglement increase from local interactions with  not-completely-positive maps	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Thomas F. Jordan, Anil Shaji, E. C. G. Sudarshan	 Abstract: Simple examples are constructed that show the entanglement of two qubits being both increased and decreased by interactions on just one of them. One of the two qubits interacts with a third qubit, a control, that is never entangled or correlated with either of the two entangled qubits and is never entangled, but becomes correlated, with the system of those two qubits. The two entangled qubits do not interact, but their state can change from maximally entangled to separable or from separable to maximally entangled. Similar changes for the two qubits are made with a swap operation between one of the qubits and a control; then there are compensating changes of entanglement that involve the control. When the entanglement increases, the map that describes the change of the state of the two entangled qubits is not completely positive. Combination of two independent interactions that individually give exponential decay of the entanglement can cause the entanglement to not decay exponentially but, instead, go to zero at a finite time. 
0704.00462	Extended solar emission - an analysis of the EGRET data	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Elena Orlando, Dirk Petry, Andrew Strong	 Abstract: The Sun was recently predicted to be an extended source of gamma-ray emission, produced by inverse-Compton scattering of cosmic-ray electrons with the solar radiation. The emission was predicted to contribute to the diffuse extragalactic background even at large angular distances from the Sun. While this emission is expected to be readily detectable in future by GLAST, the situation for available EGRET data is more challenging. We present a detailed study of the EGRET database, using a time dependent analysis, accounting for the effect of the emission from 3C 279, the moon, and other sources, which interfere with the solar signal. The technique has been tested on the moon signal, with results consistent with previous work. We find clear evidence for emission from the Sun and its vicinity. The observations are compared with our model for the extended emission. 
0704.00463	Mass and Temperature of the TWA 7 Debris Disk	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:B. C. Matthews (Herzberg Institute of Astrophysics, Canada), P. G. Kalas (UC Berkeley, U.S.A.), M. C. Wyatt (University of Cambridge, U.K.)	 Abstract: We present photometric detections of dust emission at 850 and 450 micron around the pre-main sequence M1 dwarf TWA 7 using the SCUBA camera on the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope. These data confirm the presence of a cold dust disk around TWA 7, a member of the TW Hydrae Association. Based on the 850 micron flux, we estimate the mass of the disk to be 18 lunar masses (0.2 Earth masses) assuming a mass opacity of 1.7 cm^2/g with a temperature of 45 K. This makes the TWA 7 disk (d=55 pc) an order of magnitude more massive than the disk reported around AU Microscopii (GL 803), the closest (9.9 pc) debris disk detected around an M dwarf. This is consistent with TWA 7 being slightly younger than AU Mic. We find that the mid-IR and submillimeter data require the disk to be comprised of dust at a range of temperatures. A model in which the dust is at a single radius from the star, with a range of temperatures according to grain size, is as effective at fitting the emission spectrum as a model in which the dust is of uniform size, but has a range of temperatures according to distance. We discuss this disk in the context of known disks in the TW Hydrae Association and around low-mass stars; a comparison of masses of disks in the TWA reveals no trend in mass or evolutionary state (gas-rich vs. debris) as a function of spectral type. 
0704.00464	Annealed importance sampling of dileucine peptide	Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)	Authors:Edward Lyman, Daniel M. Zuckerman	 Abstract: Annealed importance sampling is a means to assign equilibrium weights to a nonequilibrium sample that was generated by a simulated annealing protocol. The weights may then be used to calculate equilibrium averages, and also serve as an ``adiabatic signature'' of the chosen cooling schedule. In this paper we demonstrate the method on the 50-atom dileucine peptide, showing that equilibrium distributions are attained for manageable cooling schedules. For this system, as naively implemented here, the method is modestly more efficient than constant temperature simulation. However, the method is worth considering whenever any simulated heating or cooling is performed (as is often done at the beginning of a simulation project, or during an NMR structure calculation), as it is simple to implement and requires minimal additional CPU expense. Furthermore, the naive implementation presented here can be improved. 
0704.00465	A General Nonlinear Fokker-Planck Equation and its Associated Entropy	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Veit Schwammle, Evaldo M. F. Curado, Fernando D. Nobre	 Abstract: A recently introduced nonlinear Fokker-Planck equation, derived directly from a master equation, comes out as a very general tool to describe phenomenologically systems presenting complex behavior, like anomalous diffusion, in the presence of external forces. Such an equation is characterized by a nonlinear diffusion term that may present, in general, two distinct powers of the probability distribution. Herein, we calculate the stationary-state distributions of this equation in some special cases, and introduce associated classes of generalized entropies in order to satisfy the H-theorem. Within this approach, the parameters associated with the transition rates of the original master-equation are related to such generalized entropies, and are shown to obey some restrictions. Some particular cases are discussed. 
0704.00466	Conduction electron spin-lattice relaxation time in the MgB2  superconductor	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:F. Simon, F. Murányi, T. Fehér, A. Jánossy, L. Forró, C. Petrovic, S.L. Bud'ko, P.C. Canfield	 Abstract: The spin-lattice relaxation time, $T_{1}$, of conduction electrons is measured as a function of temperature and magnetic field in MgB$_2$. The method is based on the detection of the $z$ component of the conduction electron magnetization under electron spin resonance conditions with amplitude modulated microwave excitation. Measurement of $T_{1}$ below $T_c$ at 0.32 T allows to disentangle contributions from the two Fermi surfaces of MgB$_{2}$ as this field restores normal state on the Fermi surface part with $\pi$ symmetry only. 
0704.00467	Modeling Accretion Disk X-ray Continuum of Black Hole Candidates	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Gabor Pszota, Wei Cui	 Abstract: We critically examine issues associated with determining the fundamental properties of the black hole and the surrounding accretion disk in an X-ray binary based on modeling the disk X-ray continuum of the source. We base our work mainly on two XMM-Newton observations of GX 339-4, because they provided high-quality data at low energies (below 1 keV) which are critical for reliably modeling the spectrum of the accretion disk. A key issue examined is the determination of the so-called "color correction factor", which is often empirically introduced to account for the deviation of the local disk spectrum from a blackbody (due to electron scattering). This factor cannot be pre-determined theoretically because it may vary with, e.g., mass accretion rate, among a number of important factors. We follow up on an earlier suggestion to estimate the color correction observationally by modeling the disk spectrum with saturated Compton scattering. We show that the spectra can be fitted well and the approach yields reasonable values for the color correction factor. For comparison, we have also attempted to fit the spectra with other models. We show that even the high-soft-state continuum (which is dominated by the disk emission) cannot be satisfactorily fitted by state-of-the-art disk models. We discuss the implication of the results. 
0704.00468	Inapproximability of Maximum Weighted Edge Biclique and Its Applications	Computational Complexity (cs.CC)	Authors:Jinsong Tan	 Abstract: Given a bipartite graph $G = (V_1,V_2,E)$ where edges take on {\it both} positive and negative weights from set $\mathcal{S}$, the {\it maximum weighted edge biclique} problem, or $\mathcal{S}$-MWEB for short, asks to find a bipartite subgraph whose sum of edge weights is maximized. This problem has various applications in bioinformatics, machine learning and databases and its (in)approximability remains open. In this paper, we show that for a wide range of choices of $\mathcal{S}$, specifically when $| \frac{\min\mathcal{S}} {\max \mathcal{S}} | \in \Omega(\eta^{\delta-1/2}) \cap O(\eta^{1/2-\delta})$ (where $\eta = \max\{|V_1|, |V_2|\}$, and $\delta \in (0,1/2]$), no polynomial time algorithm can approximate $\mathcal{S}$-MWEB within a factor of $n^{\epsilon}$ for some $\epsilon > 0$ unless $\mathsf{RP = NP}$. This hardness result gives justification of the heuristic approaches adopted for various applied problems in the aforementioned areas, and indicates that good approximation algorithms are unlikely to exist. Specifically, we give two applications by showing that: 1) finding statistically significant biclusters in the SAMBA model, proposed in \cite{Tan02} for the analysis of microarray data, is $n^{\epsilon}$-inapproximable; and 2) no polynomial time algorithm exists for the Minimum Description Length with Holes problem \cite{Bu05} unless $\mathsf{RP=NP}$. 
0704.00469	On line arrangements with applications to 3-nets	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Giancarlo Urzua	 Abstract: We show a one-to-one correspondence between arrangements of d lines in the projective plane, and lines in P^{d-2}. We apply this correspondence to classify (3,q)-nets over the complex numbers for all q<=6. When q=6, we have twelve possible combinatorial cases, but we prove that only nine of them are realizable. This new case shows several new properties for 3-nets: different dimensions for moduli, strict realization over certain fields, etc. We also construct a three dimensional family of (3,8)-nets corresponding to the Quaternion group. 
0704.00470	Testing turbulence model at metric scales with mid-infrared VISIR images  at the VLT	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Tokovinin, M. Sarazin, A. Smette	 Abstract: We probe turbulence structure from centimetric to metric scales by simultaneous imagery at mid-infrared and visible wavelengths at the VLT telescope and show that it departs significantly from the commonly used Kolmogorov model. The data can be fitted by the von Karman model with an outer scale of the order of 30 m and we see clear signs of the phase structure function saturation across the 8-m VLT aperture. The image quality improves in the infrared faster than the standard lambda^{-1/5} scaling and may be diffraction-limited at 30-m apertures even without adaptive optics at wavelengths longer than 8 micron. 
0704.00471	Density dependence of the symmetry energy and the nuclear equation of  state: A Dynamical and Statistical model perspective	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:D.V. Shetty, S.J. Yennello, G.A. Souliotis	 Abstract: The density dependence of the symmetry energy in the equation of state of isospin asymmetric nuclear matter is of significant importance for studying the structure of systems as diverse as the neutron-rich nuclei and the neutron stars. A number of reactions using the dynamical and the statistical models of multifragmentation, and the experimental isoscaling observable, is studied to extract information on the density dependence of the symmetry energy. It is observed that the dynamical and the statistical model calculations give consistent results assuming the sequential decay effect in dynamical model to be small. A comparison with several other independent studies is also made to obtain important constraint on the form of the density dependence of the symmetry energy. The comparison rules out an extremely " stiff " and " soft " form of the density dependence of the symmetry energy with important implications for astrophysical and nuclear physics studies. 
0704.00472	Competitive nucleation and the Ostwald rule in a generalized Potts model  with multiple metastable phases	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:David P. Sanders, Hernán Larralde, François Leyvraz (Instituto de Ciencias Físicas, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México)	 Abstract: We introduce a simple nearest-neighbor spin model with multiple metastable phases, the number and decay pathways of which are explicitly controlled by the parameters of the system. With this model we can construct, for example, a system which evolves through an arbitrarily long succession of metastable phases. We also construct systems in which different phases may nucleate competitively from a single initial phase. For such a system, we present a general method to extract from numerical simulations the individual nucleation rates of the nucleating phases. The results show that the Ostwald rule, which predicts which phase will nucleate, must be modified probabilistically when the new phases are almost equally stable. Finally, we show that the nucleation rate of a phase depends, among other things, on the number of other phases accessible from it. 
0704.00473	Contrasting Two Transformation-Based Methods for Obtaining Absolute  Extrema	Optimization and Control (math.OC)	Authors:Delfim F. M. Torres, George Leitmann	 Abstract: In this note we contrast two transformation-based methods to deduce absolute extrema and the corresponding extremizers. Unlike variation-based methods, the transformation-based ones of Carlson and Leitmann and the recent one of Silva and Torres are direct in that they permit obtaining solutions by inspection. 
0704.00474	Application of Ewald summations to long-range dispersion forces	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Pieter J. in 't Veld, Ahmed E. Ismail, Gary S. Grest	 Abstract: We present results illustrating the effects of using explicit summation terms for the $r^{-6}$ dispersion term on the interfacial properties of a Lennard-Jones fluid and SPC/E water. For the Lennard-Jones fluid, we find that the use of long-range summations, even with a short ``crossover radius,'' yields results that are consistent with simulations using large cutoff radii. Simulations of SPC/E water demonstrate that the long-range dispersion forces are of secondary importance to the Coulombic forces. In both cases, we find that the ratio of box size $L_{\parallel}$ to crossover radius $r_{\rm c}^{\mathbf k}$ plays an important role in determining the magnitude of the long-range dispersion correction, although its effect is secondary when Coulombic interactions are also present. 
0704.00475	Possible non-thermal nature of the soft-excess emission in the cluster  of galaxies Sersic 159-03	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:N. Werner, J.S. Kaastra, Y. Takei, R. Lieu, J. Vink, T. Tamura	 Abstract: We present an analysis of new Suzaku data and archival data from XMM-Newton of the cluster of galaxies Sersic 159-03, which has a strong soft X-ray excess emission component. The Suzaku observation confirms the presence of the soft excess emission, but it does not confirm the presence of redshifted OVII lines in the cluster. Radial profiles and 2D maps derived from XMM-Newton observations show that the soft excess emission has a strong peak at the position of the central cD galaxy and the maps do not show any significant azimuthal variations. Although the soft excess emission can be fitted equally well with both thermal and non-thermal models, its spatial distribution is neither consistent with the models of intercluster warm-hot filaments, nor with models of clumpy warm intracluster gas associated with infalling groups. Using the data obtained by the XMM-Newton Reflection Grating Spectrometers we do not confirm the presence of the warm gas in the cluster centre with the expected properties assuming the soft excess is of thermal origin. The observed properties of the soft excess emission are consistent with the non-thermal interpretation. While the high density of relativistic electrons associated with the peak of the soft emission in the cluster centre might have been provided by an active galactic nucleus in the central cD galaxy, the underlying population might have been accelerated in diffuse shocks. 
0704.00476	Geometric phase of an atom inside an adiabatic radio frequency potential	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:P. Zhang, L. You	 Abstract: We investigate the geometric phase of an atom inside an adiabatic radio frequency (rf) potential created from a static magnetic field (B-field) and a time dependent rf field. The spatial motion of the atomic center of mass is shown to give rise to a geometric phase, or Berry's phase, to the adiabatically evolving atomic hyperfine spin along the local B-field. This phase is found to depend on both the static B-field along the semi-classical trajectory of the atomic center of mass and an ``effective magnetic field'' of the total B-field, including the oscillating rf field. Specific calculations are provided for several recent atom interferometry experiments and proposals utilizing adiabatic rf potentials. 
0704.00477	The Transition from the First Stars to the Second Stars in the Early  Universe	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Britton D. Smith, Steinn Sigurdsson	 Abstract: We observe a sharp transition from a singular, high-mass mode of star formation, to a low-mass dominated mode, in numerical simulations, at a metallicity of 10^-3 Zsolar. We incorporate a new method for including the radiative cooling from metals into adaptive mesh-refinement hydrodynamic simulations. Our results illustrate how metals, produced by the first stars, led to a transition from the high-mass star formation mode of Pop III stars, to the low-mass mode that dominates today. We ran hydrodynamic simulations with cosmological initial conditions in the standard LambdaCDM model, with metallicities, from zero to 10^-2 Zsolar, beginnning at redshift, z = 99. The simulations were run until a dense core forms at the center of a 5 x 10^5 Msolar dark matter halo, at z ~ 18. Analysis of the central 1 Msolar core reveals that the two simulations with the lowest metallicities, Z = 0 and 10^-4 Zsolar, contain one clump with 99% of the mass, while the two with metallicities, Z = 10^-3 and 10^-2 Zsolar, each contain two clumps that share most of the mass. The Z = 10^-3 Zsolar simulation also produced two low-mass proto-stellar objects with masses between 10^-2 and 10^-1 Msolar. Gas with Z >= 10^-3 Zsolar is able to cool to the temperature of the CMB, which sets a lower limit to the minimum fragmentation mass. This suggests that the second generation stars produced a spectrum of lower mass stars, but were still more massive on average than stars formed in the local universe. 
0704.00478	Super Star Cluster Velocity Dispersions and Virial Masses in the M82  Nuclear Starburst	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nate McCrady, James R. Graham	 Abstract: We use high-resolution near-infrared spectroscopy from Keck Observatory to measure the stellar velocity dispersions of 19 super star clusters (SSCs) in the nuclear starburst of M82. The clusters have ages on the order of 10 Myr, which is many times longer than the crossing times implied by their velocity dispersions and radii. We therefore apply the Virial Theorem to derive the kinematic mass for 15 of the SSCs. The SSCs have masses of 2 x 10^5 to 4 x 10^6 solar masses, with a total population mass of 1.4 x 10^7 solar masses. Comparison of the loci of the young M82 SSCs and old Milky Way globular clusters in a plot of radius versus velocity dispersion suggests that the SSCs are a population of potential globular clusters. We present the mass function for the SSCs, and find a power law fit with an index of gamma = -1.91 +/- 0.06. This result is nearly identical to the mass function of young SSCs in the Antennae galaxies. 
0704.00479	The affine part of the Picard scheme	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:T.Geisser	 Abstract: We describe the maximal torus and maximal unipotent subgroup of the Picard variety of a proper scheme over a perfect field. 
0704.00480	Enhanced quantum Zeno effect and bunching in the decay of interacting  bosons from an unstable state	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Sungyun Kim, Artem Dudarev, Joachim Brand	 Abstract: paper withdrawn due to the possible error in numerical eigenfunction calculation 
0704.00481	The few scales of nuclei and nuclear matter	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:A. Delfino, T. Frederico, V.S. Timoteo, Lauro Tomio	 Abstract: The well-known correlations of low-energy three and four-nucleon observables with a typical three-nucleon scale (e.g., the Tjon line) is extended to light nuclei and nuclear matter. Evidence for the scaling between light nuclei binding energies and the triton one are pointed out. We argue that the saturation energy and density of nuclear matter are correlated to the triton binding energy. The available systematic nuclear matter calculations indicate a possible band structure representing these correlations. 
0704.00482	Implementation of holonomic quantum computation through engineering and  manipulating environment	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Zhang-qi Yin, Fu-li Li, Peng Peng	 Abstract: We consider an atom-field coupled system, in which two pairs of four-level atoms are respectively driven by laser fields and trapped in two distant cavities that are connected by an optical fiber. First, we show that an effective squeezing reservoir can be engineered under appropriate conditions. Then, we show that a two-qubit geometric CPHASE gate between the atoms in the two cavities can be implemented through adiabatically manipulating the engineered reservoir along a closed loop. This scheme that combines engineering environment with decoherence-free space and geometric phase quantum computation together has the remarkable feature: a CPHASE gate with arbitrary phase shift is implemented by simply changing the strength and relative phase of the driving fields. 
0704.00483	Vortex state in a Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov superconductor based  on the quasiclassical theory	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Masanori Ichioka, Hiroto Adachi, Takeshi Mizushima, Kazushige Machida	 Abstract: We investigate the vortex state with Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov (FFLO) modulations suggested for a high field phase of CeCoIn_5. On the basis of the quasiclassical Eilenberger theory, we calculate the three dimensional structure of pair potentials, internal magnetic fields, paramagnetic moments, and electronic states, for the s-wave and the d-wave pairings comparatively. The \pi-phase shift of the pair potential at the FFLO nodal plane or at the vortex core induces sharp peak states in the local density of states, and enhances the local paramagnetic moment. We also discuss the NMR spectrum and the neutron scattering as methods to detect the FFLO structure. 
0704.00484	Search for Chaotic Behavior in a Flapping Flag	Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)	Authors:J. O. McCaslin, P. R. Broussard	 Abstract: We measured the correlation of the times between successive flaps of a flag for a variety of wind speeds and found no evidence of low dimensional chaotic behavior in the return maps of these times. We instead observed what is best modeled as random times determined by an exponential distribution. This study was done as an undergraduate experiment and illustrates the differences between low dimensional chaotic and possibly higher dimensional chaotic systems. 
0704.00485	Optimal Shape Design for Stokes Flow Via Minimax Differentiability	Optimization and Control (math.OC)	Authors:Z.M. Gao, Y.C. Ma, H.W. Zhuang	 Abstract: This paper is concerned with a shape sensitivity analysis of a viscous incompressible fluid driven by Stokes equations with nonhomogeneous boundary condition. The structure of shape gradient with respect to the shape of the variable domain for a given cost function is established by using the differentiability of a minimax formulation involving a Lagrangian functional combining with function space parametrization technique or function space embedding technique. We apply an gradient type algorithm to our problem. Numerical examples show that our theory is useful for practical purpose and the proposed algorithm is feasible. 
0704.00486	Kinematic Decoupling of Globular Clusters with Extended  Horizontal-Branch	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Young-Wook Lee, Hansung B. Gim, Dana I. Casetti-Dinescu	 Abstract: About 25% of the Milky Way globular clusters (GCs) exhibit unusually extended color distribution of stars in the horizontal-branch (HB) phase. This phenomenon is now best understood as due to the presence of helium enhanced second generation subpopulations, which has raised a possibility that these peculiar GCs might have a unique origin. Here we show that these GCs with extended HB are clearly distinct from other normal GCs in kinematics and mass. The GCs with extended HB are more massive than normal GCs, and are dominated by random motion with no correlation between kinematics and metallicity. Surprisingly, however, when they are excluded, most normal GCs in the inner halo show clear signs of dissipational collapse that apparently led to the formation of the disk. Normal GCs in the outer halo share their kinematic properties with the extended HB GCs, which is consistent with the accretion origin. Our result further suggests heterogeneous origins of GCs, and we anticipate this to be a starting point for more detailed investigations of Milky Way formation, including early mergers, collapse, and later accretion. 
0704.00487	Scalar potential model progress	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:J. C. Hodge	 Abstract: Because observations of galaxies and clusters have been found inconsistent with General Relativity (GR), the focus of effort in developing a Scalar Potential Model (SPM) has been on the examination of galaxies and clusters. The SPM has been found to be consistent with cluster cellular structure, the flow of IGM from spiral galaxies to elliptical galaxies, intergalactic redshift without an expanding universe, discrete redshift, rotation curve (RC) data without dark matter, asymmetric RCs, galaxy central mass, galaxy central velocity dispersion, and the Pioneer Anomaly. In addition, the SPM suggests a model of past expansion, past contraction, and current expansion of the universe. GR corresponds to the SPM in the limit in which the effect of the Sources and Sinks approximate a flat scalar potential field such as between clusters and on the solar system scale, which is small relative to the distance to a Source. 
0704.00488	Teleparallel Version of the Stationary Axisymmetric Solutions and their  Energy Contents	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:M. Sharif, M. Jamil Amir	 Abstract: This work contains the teleparallel version of the stationary axisymmetric solutions. We obtain the tetrad and the torsion fields representing these solutions. The tensor, vector and axial-vector parts of the torsion tensor are evaluated. It is found that the axial-vector has component only along $\rho$ and $z$ directions. The three possibilities of the axial vector depending on the metric function $B$ are discussed. The vector related with spin has also been evaluated and the corresponding extra Hamiltonian is furnished. Further, we use the teleparallel version of M$\ddot{o}$ller prescription to find the energy-momentum distribution of the solutions. It is interesting to note that (for $\lambda=1$) energy and momentum densities in teleparallel theory are equal to the corresponding quantities in GR plus an additional quantity in each, which may become equal under certain conditions. Finally, we discuss the two special cases of the stationary axisymmetric solutions. 
0704.00489	Relativistic treatment in D-dimensions to a spin-zero particle with  noncentral equal scalar and vector ring-shaped Kratzer potential	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever	 Abstract: The Klein-Gordon equation in D-dimensions for a recently proposed Kratzer potential plus ring-shaped potential is solved analytically by means of the conventional Nikiforov-Uvarov method. The exact energy bound-states and the corresponding wave functions of the Klein-Gordon are obtained in the presence of the noncentral equal scalar and vector potentials. The results obtained in this work are more general and can be reduced to the standard forms in three-dimensions given by other works. 
0704.00490	Long Distance Signaling Using Axion-like Particles	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Daniel D. Stancil	 Abstract: The possible existence of axion-like particles could lead to a new type of long distance communication. In this work, basic antenna concepts are defined and a Friis-like equation is derived to facilitate long-distance link calculations. An example calculation is presented showing that communication over distances of 1000 km or more may be possible for $m_{a}< 3.5$ meV and $g_{a\gamma \gamma} > 5 \times 10^{- 8} {\text{GeV}}^{- 1}$. 
0704.00491	Weighted percolation on directed networks	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Juan G. Restrepo, Edward Ott, Brian R. Hunt	 Abstract: We present an analysis of the percolation transition for general node removal strategies valid for locally tree-like directed networks. On the basis of heuristic arguments we predict that, if the probability of removing node $i$ is $p_i$, the network disintegrates if $p_i$ is such that the largest eigenvalue of the matrix with entries $A_{ij}(1-p_i)$ is less than 1, where $A$ is the adjacency matrix of the network. The knowledge or applicability of a Markov network model is not required by our theory, thus making it applicable to situations not covered by previous works. We test our predicted percolation criterion against numerical results for different networks and node removal strategies. 
0704.00492	Refuting the Pseudo Attack on the REESSE1+ Cryptosystem	Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)	Authors:Shenghui Su, Shuwang Lu	 Abstract: We illustrate through example 1 and 2 that the condition at theorem 1 in [8] dissatisfies necessity, and the converse proposition of fact 1.1 in [8] does not hold, namely the condition Z/M - L/Ak < 1/(2 Ak^2) is not sufficient for f(i) + f(j) = f(k). Illuminate through an analysis and ex.3 that there is a logic error during deduction of fact 1.2, which causes each of fact 1.2, 1.3, 4 to be invalid. Demonstrate through ex.4 and 5 that each or the combination of qu+1 > qu * D at fact 4 and table 1 at fact 2.2 is not sufficient for f(i) + f(j) = f(k), property 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 each are invalid, and alg.1 based on fact 4 and alg.2 based on table 1 are disordered and wrong logically. Further, manifest through a repeated experiment and ex.5 that the data at table 2 is falsified, and the example in [8] is woven elaborately. We explain why Cx = Ax * W^f(x) (% M) is changed to Cx = (Ax * W^f(x))^d (% M) in REESSE1+ v2.1. To the signature fraud, we point out that [8] misunderstands the existence of T^-1 and Q^-1 % (M-1), and forging of Q can be easily avoided through moving H. Therefore, the conclusion of [8] that REESSE1+ is not secure at all (which connotes that [8] can extract a related private key from any public key in REESSE1+) is fully incorrect, and as long as the parameter Omega is fitly selected, REESSE1+ with Cx = Ax * W^f(x) (% M) is secure. 
0704.00493	Phase structure of a surface model on dynamically triangulated spheres  with elastic skeletons	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Hiroshi Koibuchi	 Abstract: We find three distinct phases; a tubular phase, a planar phase, and the spherical phase, in a triangulated fluid surface model. It is also found that these phases are separated by discontinuous transitions. The fluid surface model is investigated within the framework of the conventional curvature model by using the canonical Monte Carlo simulations with dynamical triangulations. The mechanical strength of the surface is given only by skeletons, and no two-dimensional bending energy is assumed in the Hamiltonian. The skeletons are composed of elastic linear-chains and rigid junctions and form a compartmentalized structure on the surface, and for this reason the vertices of triangles can diffuse freely only inside the compartments. As a consequence, an inhomogeneous structure is introduced in the model; the surface strength inside the compartments is different from the surface strength on the compartments. However, the rotational symmetry is not influenced by the elastic skeletons; there is no specific direction on the surface. In addition to the three phases mentioned above, a collapsed phase is expected to exist in the low bending rigidity regime that was not studied here. The inhomogeneous structure and the fluidity of vertices are considered to be the origin of such variety of phases. 
0704.00494	Vortex Dynamics at the Initial Stage of Resistive Transition in  Superconductors with Fractal Cluster Structure	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Yuriy I. Kuzmin	 Abstract: The effect of fractal normal-phase clusters on vortex dynamics in a percolative superconductor is considered. The superconductor contains percolative superconducting cluster carrying a transport current and clusters of a normal phase, acting as pinning centers. A prototype of such a structure is YBCO film, containing clusters of columnar defects, as well as the BSCCO/Ag sheathed tape, which is of practical interest for wire fabrication. Transition of the superconductor into a resistive state corresponds to the percolation transition from a pinned vortex state to a resistive state when the vortices are free to move. The dependencies of the free vortex density on the fractal dimension of the cluster boundary as well as the resistance on the transport current are obtained. It is revealed that a mixed state of the vortex glass type is realized in the superconducting system involved. The current-voltage characteristics of superconductors containing fractal clusters are obtained and their features are studied. 
0704.00495	The Veldkamp Space of Two-Qubits	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Metod Saniga (ASTRINSTSAV), Michel Planat (FEMTO-ST), Petr Pracna (JH-Inst), Hans Havlicek (TUW)	 Abstract: Given a remarkable representation of the generalized Pauli operators of two-qubits in terms of the points of the generalized quadrangle of order two, W(2), it is shown that specific subsets of these operators can also be associated with the points and lines of the four-dimensional projective space over the Galois field with two elements - the so-called Veldkamp space of W(2). An intriguing novelty is the recognition of (uni- and tri-centric) triads and specific pentads of the Pauli operators in addition to the "classical" subsets answering to geometric hyperplanes of W(2). 
0704.00496	Fusion process studied with preequilibrium giant dipole resonance in  time dependent Hartree-Fock theory	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Cédric Simenel (SPhN, GANIL), Philippe Chomaz (GANIL), Gilles De France (GANIL)	 Abstract: The equilibration of macroscopic degrees of freedom during the fusion of heavy nuclei, like the charge and the shape, are studied in the Time-Dependent Hartree-Fock theory. The pre-equilibrium Giant Dipole Resonance (GDR) is used to probe the fusion path. It is shown that such isovector collective state is excited in N/Z asymmetric fusion and to a less extent in mass asymmetric systems. The characteristics of this GDR are governed by the structure of the fused system in its preequilibrium phase, like its deformation, rotation and vibration. In particular, we show that a lowering of the pre-equilibrium GDR energy is expected as compared to the statistical one. Revisiting experimental data, we extract an evidence of this lowering for the first time. We also quantify the fusion-evaporation enhancement due to gamma-ray emission from the pre-equilibrium GDR. This cooling mechanism along the fusion path may be suitable to synthesize in the future super heavy elements using radioactive beams with strong N/Z asymmetries in the entrance channel. 
0704.00497	Penalization approach for mixed hyperbolic systems with constant  coefficients satisfying a Uniform Lopatinski Condition	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Bruno Fornet (LATP, LMRS)	 Abstract: In this paper, we describe a new, systematic and explicit way of approximating solutions of mixed hyperbolic systems with constant coefficients satisfying a Uniform Lopatinski Condition via different Penalization approaches. 
0704.00498	A unified analysis of the reactor neutrino program towards the  measurement of the theta_13 mixing angle	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:Guillaume Mention (DAPNIA), Thierry Lasserre (DAPNIA, APC), Dario Motta (DAPNIA)	 Abstract: We present in this article a detailed quantitative discussion of the measurement of the leptonic mixing angle theta_13 through currently scheduled reactor neutrino oscillation experiments. We thus focus on Double Chooz (Phase I & II), Daya Bay (Phase I & II) and RENO experiments. We perform a unified analysis, including systematics, backgrounds and accurate experimental setup in each case. Each identified systematic error and background impact has been assessed on experimental setups following published data when available and extrapolating from Double Chooz acquired knowledge otherwise. After reviewing the experiments, we present a new analysis of their sensitivities to sin^2(2 theta_13) and study the impact of the different systematics based on the pulls approach. Through this generic statistical analysis we discuss the advantages and drawbacks of each experimental setup. 
0704.00499	Optimal Routing for Decode-and-Forward based Cooperation in Wireless  Networks	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Lawrence Ong, Mehul Motani	 Abstract: We investigate cooperative wireless relay networks in which the nodes can help each other in data transmission. We study different coding strategies in the single-source single-destination network with many relay nodes. Given the myriad of ways in which nodes can cooperate, there is a natural routing problem, i.e., determining an ordered set of nodes to relay the data from the source to the destination. We find that for a given route, the decode-and-forward strategy, which is an information theoretic cooperative coding strategy, achieves rates significantly higher than that achievable by the usual multi-hop coding strategy, which is a point-to-point non-cooperative coding strategy. We construct an algorithm to find an optimal route (in terms of rate maximizing) for the decode-and-forward strategy. Since the algorithm runs in factorial time in the worst case, we propose a heuristic algorithm that runs in polynomial time. The heuristic algorithm outputs an optimal route when the nodes transmit independent codewords. We implement these coding strategies using practical low density parity check codes to compare the performance of the strategies on different routes. 
0704.00500	On the polynomial automorphisms of a group	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:G. Endimioni	 Abstract: We prove that if a group is nilpotent (resp. metabelian), then so is the subgroup of its automorphism group generated by all polynomial automorphisms. 
0704.00501	On universality of critical behaviour in the focusing nonlinear  Schrödinger equation, elliptic umbilic catastrophe and the {\it  tritronquée} solution to the Painlevé-I equation	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:B.Dubrovin, T.Grava, C.Klein	 Abstract: We argue that the critical behaviour near the point of ``gradient catastrophe" of the solution to the Cauchy problem for the focusing nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation $ i\epsilon \psi_t +\frac{\epsilon^2}2\psi_{xx}+ |\psi|^2 \psi =0$ with analytic initial data of the form $\psi(x,0;\epsilon) =A(x) e^{\frac{i}{\epsilon} S(x)}$ is approximately described by a particular solution to the Painlev\'e-I equation. 
0704.00502	Generic representations of orthogonal groups: projective functors in the  category Fquad	Algebraic Topology (math.AT)	Authors:Christine Vespa	 Abstract: In this paper, we continue the study of the category of functors Fquad, associated to F_2-vector spaces equipped with a nondegenerate quadratic form, initiated in two previous papers of the author. We define a filtration of the standard projective objects in Fquad; this refines to give a decomposition into indecomposable factors of the two first standard projective objects in Fquad. As an application of these two decompositions, we give a complete description of the polynomial functors of the category Fquad. 
0704.00503	Manifolds admitting a $\tilde G_2$-structure	Algebraic Topology (math.AT)	Authors:Hong-Van Le	 Abstract: We find a necessary and sufficient condition for a compact 7-manifold to admit a $\tilde G_2$-structure. As a result we find a sufficient condition for an open 7-manifold to admit a closed 3-form of $\tilde G_2$-type. 
0704.00504	Compatibility of Exotic States with Neutron Star Observation	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Chang Ho Hyun	 Abstract: We consider the effect of hard core repulsion in the baryon-baryon interaction at short distance to the properties of a neutron star. We obtain that, even with hyperons in the interior of a neutron star, the neutron star mass can be as large as $\sim 2 M_\odot$. 
0704.00505	Exact Solutions of Einstein-Yang-Mills Theory with Higher-Derivative  Coupling	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Hironobu Kihara, Muneto Nitta	 Abstract: We construct a classical solution of an Einstein-Yang-Mills system with a fourth order term with respect to the field strength of the Yang-Mills field. The solution provides a spontaneous compactification proposed by Cremmer and Scherk; ten-dimensional space-time with a cosmological constant is compactified to the four-dimensional Minkowski space with a six-dimensional sphere S^6 on which an instanton solution exists. The radius of the sphere is not a modulus but is determined by the gauge coupling and the four-derivative coupling constants and the Newton's constant. We also construct a solution of ten-dimensional theory without a cosmological constant compactified to AdS_4 x S^6. 
0704.00506	Dimensional crossover of quantum critical behavior in CeCoIn$_5$	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:J.G. Donath, P. Gegenwart, F. Steglich, E.D. Bauer, J.L. Sarrao	 Abstract: The nature of quantum criticality in CeCoIn$_5$ is studied by low-temperature thermal expansion $\alpha(T)$. At the field-induced quantum critical point at H=5 T a crossover scale $T^\star\approx 0.3$ K is observed, separating $\alpha(T)/T\propto T^{-1}$ from a weaker $T^{-1/2}$ divergence. We ascribe this change to a crossover in the dimensionality of the critical fluctuations which may be coupled to a change from unconventional to conventional quantum criticality. Disorder, whose effect on quantum criticality is studied in CeCoIn$_{5-x}$Sn$_x$ ($0\leq x\leq 0.18$), shifts $T^\star$ towards higher temperatures. 
0704.00507	E_6 and the bipartite entanglement of three qutrits	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:M. J. Duff, S. Ferrara	 Abstract: Recent investigations have established an analogy between the entropy of four-dimensional supersymmetric black holes in string theory and entanglement in quantum information theory. Examples include: (1) N=2 STU black holes and the tripartite entanglement of three qubits (2-state systems), where the common symmetry is [SL(2)]^3 and (2) N=8 black holes and the tripartite entanglement of seven qubits where the common symmetry is E_7 which contains [SL(2)]^7. Here we present another example: N=8 black holes (or black strings) in five dimensions and the bipartite entanglement of three qutrits (3-state systems), where the common symmetry is E_6 which contains [SL(3)]^3. Both the black hole (or black string) entropy and the entanglement measure are provided by the Cartan cubic E_6 invariant. Similar analogies exist for ``magic'' N=2 supergravity black holes in both four and five dimensions. 
0704.00508	Invariance principle for additive functionals of Markov chains	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Yuri N.Kartashov, Alexey M.Kulik	 Abstract: We consider a sequence of additive functionals {\phi_n}, set on a sequence of Markov chains {X_n} that weakly converges to a Markov process X. We give sufficient condition for such a sequence to converge in distribution, formulated in terms of the characteristics of the additive functionals, and related to the Dynkin's theorem on the convergence of W-functionals. As an application of the main theorem, the general sufficient condition for convergence of additive functionals in terms of transition probabilities of the chains X_n is proved. 
0704.00509	Dissipative backward stochastic differential equations with locally  Lipschitz nonlinearity	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Fulvia Confortola	 Abstract: In this paper we study a class of backward stochastic differential equations (BSDEs) of the form dY(t)= -AY(t)dt -f_0(t,Y(t))dt -f_1(t,Y(t),Z(t))dt + Z(t)dW(t) on the interval [0,T], with given final condition at time T, in an infinite dimensional Hilbert space H. The unbounded operator A is sectorial and dissipative and the nonlinearity f_0(t,y) is dissipative and defined for y only taking values in a subspace of H. A typical example is provided by the so-called polynomial nonlinearities. Applications are given to stochastic partial differential equations and spin systems. 
0704.00510	Axino warm dark matter and $Ω_b - Ω_{DM}$ coincidence	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Osamu Seto, Masahide Yamaguchi	 Abstract: We show that axinos, which are dominantly generated by the decay of the next-to-lightest supersymmetric particles produced from the leptonic $Q$-ball ($L$-ball), become warm dark matter suitable for the solution of the missing satellite problem and the cusp problem. In addition, $\Omega_b - \Omega_{DM}$ coincidence is naturally explained in this scenario. 
0704.00511	A unified approach to SIC-POVMs and MUBs	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:O. Albouy (IPNL), M. R. Kibler (IPNL)	 Abstract: A unified approach to (symmetric informationally complete) positive operator valued measures and mutually unbiased bases is developed in this article. The approach is based on the use of operator equivalents expanded in the enveloping algebra of SU(2). Emphasis is put on similarities and differences between SIC-POVMs and MUBs. 
0704.00512	Stable oscillations of a predator-prey probabilistic cellular automaton:  a mean-field approach	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Tânia Tomé, Kelly C de Carvalho	 Abstract: We analyze a probabilistic cellular automaton describing the dynamics of coexistence of a predator-prey system. The individuals of each species are localized over the sites of a lattice and the local stochastic updating rules are inspired on the processes of the Lotka-Volterra model. Two levels of mean-field approximations are set up. The simple approximation is equivalent to an extended patch model, a simple metapopulation model with patches colonized by prey, patches colonized by predators and empty patches. This approximation is capable of describing the limited available space for species occupancy. The pair approximation is moreover able to describe two types of coexistence of prey and predators: one where population densities are constant in time and another displaying self-sustained time-oscillations of the population densities. The oscillations are associated with limit cycles and arise through a Hopf bifurcation. They are stable against changes in the initial conditions and, in this sense, they differ from the Lotka-Volterra cycles which depend on initial conditions. In this respect, the present model is biologically more realistic than the Lotka-Volterra model. 
0704.00513	SDSS J233325.92+152222.1 and the evolution of intermediate polars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:John Southworth (1), B. T. Gaensicke (1), T. R. Marsh (1), D. de Martino (2), A. Aungwerojwit (1 and 3) ((1) University of Warwick, UK, (2) INAF - Osservatorio di Capodimonte, Italy, (3) Naresuan University, Thailand)	 Abstract: Intermediate polars (IPs) are cataclysmic variables which contain magnetic white dwarfs with a rotational period shorter than the binary orbital period. Evolutionary theory predicts that IPs with long orbital periods evolve through the 2-3 hour period gap, but it is very uncertain what the properties of the resulting objects are. Whilst a relatively large number of long-period IPs are known, very few of these have short orbital periods. We present phase-resolved spectroscopy and photometry of SDSS J233325.92+152222.1 and classify it as the IP with the shortest known orbital period (83.12 +/- 0.09 min), which contains a white dwarf with a relatively long spin period (41.66 +/- 0.13 min). We estimate the white dwarf's magnetic moment to be mu(WD) \approx 2 x 10^33 G cm^3, which is not only similar to three of the other four confirmed short-period IPs but also to those of many of the long-period IPs. We suggest that long-period IPs conserve their magnetic moment as they evolve towards shorter orbital periods. Therefore the dominant population of long-period IPs, which have white dwarf spin periods roughly ten times shorter than their orbital periods, will likely end up as short-period IPs like SDSS J2333, with spin periods a large fraction of their orbital periods. 
0704.00514	Complexity Considerations, cSAT Lower Bound	Logic (math.LO)	Authors:Radoslaw Hofman	 Abstract: This article discusses completeness of Boolean Algebra as First Order Theory in Goedel's meaning. If Theory is complete then any possible transformation is equivalent to some transformation using axioms, predicates etc. defined for this theory. If formula is to be proved (or disproved) then it has to be reduced to axioms. If every transformation is deducible then also optimal transformation is deducible. If every transformation is exponential then optimal one is too, what allows to define lower bound for discussed problem to be exponential (outside P). Then we show algorithm for NDTM solving the same problem in O(n^c) (so problem is in NP), what proves that P \neq NP. Article proves also that result of relativisation of P=NP question and oracle shown by Baker-Gill-Solovay distinguish between deterministic and non-deterministic calculation models. If there exists oracle A for which P^A=NP^A then A consists of infinite number of algorithms, DTMs, axioms and predicates, or like NDTM infinite number of simultaneous states. 
0704.00515	Temperature dependence of Coulomb drag between finite-length quantum  wires	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:J. Peguiron, C. Bruder, B. Trauzettel	 Abstract: We evaluate the Coulomb drag current in two finite-length Tomonaga-Luttinger-liquid wires coupled by an electrostatic backscattering interaction. The drag current in one wire shows oscillations as a function of the bias voltage applied to the other wire, reflecting interferences of the plasmon standing waves in the interacting wires. In agreement with this picture, the amplitude of the current oscillations is reduced with increasing temperature. This is a clear signature of non-Fermi-liquid physics because for coupled Fermi liquids the drag resistance is always expected to increase as the temperature is raised. 
0704.00516	Effects of Imperfect Gate Operations in Shor's Prime Factorization  Algorithm	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Hao Guo, Gui Lu Long, Yang Sun	 Abstract: The effects of imperfect gate operations in implementation of Shor's prime factorization algorithm are investigated. The gate imperfections may be classified into three categories: the systematic error, the random error, and the one with combined errors. It is found that Shor's algorithm is robust against the systematic errors but is vulnerable to the random errors. Error threshold is given to the algorithm for a given number $N$ to be factorized. 
0704.00517	Using decomposed household food acquisitions as inputs of a Kinetic  Dietary Exposure Model	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Olivier Allais (CORELA), Jessica Tressou (METARISK, Hkust-Ismt)	 Abstract: Foods naturally contain a number of contaminants that may have different and long term toxic effects. This paper introduces a novel approach for the assessment of such chronic food risk that integrates the pharmacokinetic properties of a given contaminant. The estimation of such a Kinetic Dietary Exposure Model (KDEM) should be based on long term consumption data which, for the moment, can only be provided by Household Budget Surveys such as the SECODIP panel in France. A semi parametric model is proposed to decompose a series of household quantities into individual quantities which are then used as inputs of the KDEM. As an illustration, the risk assessment related to the presence of methyl mercury in seafood is revisited using this novel approach. 
0704.00518	Dust and gas emission in the prototypical hot core G29.96-0.02 at  sub-arcsecond resolution	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:H. Beuther, Q. Zhang, E.A. Bergin, T.K. Sridharan, T.R. Hunter, S. Leurini	 Abstract: Aiming at a better understand of the physical and chemical processes in the hot molecular core stage of high-mass star formation, we observed the prototypical hot core G29.96-0.02 in the 862mu band with the Submillimeter Array (SMA) at sub-arcsecond spatial resolution. The observations resolved the hot molecular core into six submm continuum sources with the finest spatial resolution of 0.36''x0.25'' (~1800AU) achieved so far. Four of them located within 7800(AU)^2 comprise a proto-Trapezium system with estimated protostellar densities of 1.4x0^5 protostars/pc^3. The plethora of ~80 spectral lines allows us to study the molecular outflow(s), the core kinematics, the temperature structure of the region as well as chemical effects. The derived hot core temperatures are of the order 300K. We find interesting chemical spatial differentiations, e.g., C34S is deficient toward the hot core and is enhanced at the UCHII/hot core interface, which may be explained by temperature sensitive desorption from grains and following gas phase chemistry. The SiO(8-7) emission outlines likely two molecular outflows emanating from this hot core region. Emission from most other molecules peaks centrally on the hot core and is not dominated by any individual submm peak. Potential reasons for that are discussed. A few spectral lines that are associated with the main submm continuum source, show a velocity gradient perpendicular to the large-scale outflow. Since this velocity structure comprises three of the central protostellar sources, this is not a Keplerian disk. While the data are consistent with a gas core that may rotate and/or collapse, we cannot exclude the outflow(s) and/or nearby expanding UCHII region as possible alternative causes of this velocity pattern. 
0704.00519	Hamilton-Jacobi Fractional Sequential Mechanics	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Eqab M. Rabei, Bashar S. Ababneh	 Abstract: As a continuation of Rabei et al. work [11], the Hamilton- Jacobi partial differential equation is generalized to be applicable for systems containing fractional derivatives. The Hamilton- Jacobi function in configuration space is obtained in a similar manner to the usual mechanics. Two problems are considered to demonstrate the application of the formalism. The result found to be in exact agreement with Agrawal's formalism. 
0704.00520	A critical theory of quantum entanglement for the Hydrogen molecule	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Tina A.C. Maiolo, Luigi Martina, Giulio Soliani	 Abstract: In this paper we investigate some entanglement properties for the Hydrogen molecule considered as a two interacting spin 1/2 (qubit) model. The entanglement related to the $H_{2}$ molecule is evaluated both using the von Neumann entropy and the Concurrence and it is compared with the corresponding quantities for the two interacting spin system. Many aspects of these functions are examinated employing in part analytical and, essentially, numerical techniques. We have compared analogous results obtained by Huang and Kais a few years ago. In this respect, some possible controversial situations are presented and discussed. 
0704.00521	Fractionally charged excitations on frustrated lattices	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:E. Runge, F. Pollmann, P. Fulde	 Abstract: Systems of strongly correlated fermions on certain geometrically frustrated lattices at particular filling factors support excitations with fractional charges $\pm e/2$. We calculate quantum mechanical ground states, low--lying excitations and spectral functions of finite lattices by means of numerical diagonalization. The ground state of the most thoroughfully studied case, the criss-crossed checkerboard lattice, is degenerate and shows long--range order. Static fractional charges are confined by a weak linear force, most probably leading to bound states of large spatial extent. Consequently, the quasi-particle weight is reduced, which reflects the internal dynamics of the fractionally charged excitations. By using an additional parameter, we fine--tune the system to a special point at which fractional charges are manifestly deconfined--the so--called Rokhsar--Kivelson point. For a deeper understanding of the low--energy physics of these models and for numerical advantages, several conserved quantum numbers are identified. 
0704.00522	Measurement of Decay Amplitudes of B -->(c cbar) Kstar with an Angular  Analysis, for (c cbar)=J/psi, psi(2S) and chi_c1	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:The BABAR Collaboration, B. Aubert, et al	 Abstract: We perform the first three-dimensional measurement of the amplitudes of $B\to \psi(2S) K^*$ and $B\to \chi_{c1} K^*$ decays and update our previous measurement for $B\to J/\psi K^*$. We use a data sample collected with the BaBar detector at the PEP2 storage ring, corresponding to 232 million $B\bar B$ pairs. The longitudinal polarization of decays involving a $J^{PC}=1^{++}$ $\chi_{c1}$ meson is found to be larger than that with a $1^{--}$ $J/\psi$ or $\psi(2S)$ meson. No direct {\it CP}-violating charge asymmetry is observed. 
0704.00523	Quantum superpositions and entanglement of thermal states at high  temperatures and their applications to quantum information processing	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Hyunseok Jeong, Timothy C. Ralph	 Abstract: We study characteristics of superpositions and entanglement of thermal states at high temperatures and discuss their applications to quantum information processing. We introduce thermal-state qubits and thermal-Bell states, which are a generalization of pure-state qubits and Bell states to thermal mixtures. A scheme is then presented to discriminate between the four thermal-Bell states without photon number resolving detection but with Kerr nonlinear interactions and two single-photon detectors. This enables one to perform quantum teleportation and gate operations for quantum computation with thermal-state qubits. 
0704.00524	Optimal control of stochastic differential equations with dynamical  boundary conditions	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:S. Bonaccorsi, F. Confortola, E. Mastrogiacomo	 Abstract: In this paper we investigate the optimal control problem for a class of stochastic Cauchy evolution problem with non standard boundary dynamic and control. The model is composed by an infinite dimensional dynamical system coupled with a finite dimensional dynamics, which describes the boundary conditions of the internal system. In other terms, we are concerned with non standard boundary conditions, as the value at the boundary is governed by a different stochastic differential equation. 
0704.00525	On the Energy-Momentum Problem in Static Einstein Universe	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Sezgin Aygun, Ismail Tarhan, Husnu Baysal	 Abstract: This paper has been removed by arXiv administrators because it plagiarizes gr-qc/0410004, gr-qc/0603075, and others. This paper also has excessive overlap with the following papers also written by the authors or their collaborators: gr-qc/0608111, and others. 
0704.00526	Fractional WKB Approximation	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Eqab M. Rabei, Ibrahim M. A. Altarazi, Sami I. Muslih, Dumitru Baleanu	 Abstract: Wentzel, Kramers, Brillouin (WKB) approximation for fractional systems is investigated in this paper using the fractional calculus. In the fractional case the wave function is constructed such that the phase factor is the same as the Hamilton's principle function "S". To demonstrate our proposed approach two examples are investigated in details. 
0704.00527	Towards Skyrmion Stars: Large Baryon Configurations in the  Einstein-Skyrme Model	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:B.M.A.G. Piette, G.I. Probert	 Abstract: We investigate the large baryon number sector of the Einstein-Skyrme model as a possible model for baryon stars. Gravitating hedgehog skyrmions have been investigated previously and the existence of stable solitonic stars excluded due to energy considerations. However, in this paper we demonstrate that by generating gravitating skyrmions using rational maps, we can achieve multi-baryon bound states whilst recovering spherical symmetry in the limit where B becomes large. 
0704.00528	Many-to-One Throughput Capacity of IEEE 802.11 Multi-hop Wireless  Networks	Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)	Authors:Chi Pan Chan, Soung Chang Liew, An Chan	 Abstract: This paper investigates the many-to-one throughput capacity (and by symmetry, one-to-many throughput capacity) of IEEE 802.11 multi-hop networks. It has generally been assumed in prior studies that the many-to-one throughput capacity is upper-bounded by the link capacity L. Throughput capacity L is not achievable under 802.11. This paper introduces the notion of "canonical networks", which is a class of regularly-structured networks whose capacities can be analyzed more easily than unstructured networks. We show that the throughput capacity of canonical networks under 802.11 has an analytical upper bound of 3L/4 when the source nodes are two or more hops away from the sink; and simulated throughputs of 0.690L (0.740L) when the source nodes are many hops away. We conjecture that 3L/4 is also the upper bound for general networks. When all links have equal length, 2L/3 can be shown to be the upper bound for general networks. Our simulations show that 802.11 networks with random topologies operated with AODV routing can only achieve throughputs far below the upper bounds. Fortunately, by properly selecting routes near the gateway (or by properly positioning the relay nodes leading to the gateway) to fashion after the structure of canonical networks, the throughput can be improved significantly by more than 150%. Indeed, in a dense network, it is worthwhile to deactivate some of the relay nodes near the sink judiciously. 
0704.00529	Scanning Tunneling Spectroscopy in the Superconducting State and Vortex  Cores of the beta-pyrochlore KOs2O6	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:C. Dubois, G. Santi, I. Cuttat, C. Berthod, N. Jenkins, A. P. Petrović, A. A. Manuel, Ø. Fischer, S. M. Kazakov, Z. Bukowski, J. Karpinski	 Abstract: We performed the first scanning tunneling spectroscopy measurements on the pyrochlore superconductor KOs2O6 (Tc = 9.6 K) in both zero magnetic field and the vortex state at several temperatures above 1.95 K. This material presents atomically flat surfaces, yielding spatially homogeneous spectra which reveal fully-gapped superconductivity with a gap anisotropy of 30%. Measurements performed at fields of 2 and 6 T display a hexagonal Abrikosov flux line lattice. From the shape of the vortex cores, we extract a coherence length of 31-40 {\AA}, in agreement with the value derived from the upper critical field Hc2. We observe a reduction in size of the vortex cores (and hence the coherence length) with increasing field which is consistent with the unexpectedly high and unsaturated upper critical field reported. 
0704.00530	Noncommutative Solitons in a Supersymmetric Chiral Model in 2+1  Dimensions	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Olaf Lechtenfeld, Alexander D. Popov	 Abstract: We consider a supersymmetric Bogomolny-type model in 2+1 dimensions originating from twistor string theory. By a gauge fixing this model is reduced to a modified U(n) chiral model with N<=8 supersymmetries in 2+1 dimensions. After a Moyal-type deformation of the model, we employ the dressing method to explicitly construct multi-soliton configurations on noncommutative R^{2,1} and analyze some of their properties. 
0704.00531	Gravitational Duality Transformations on (A)dS4	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Robert G. Leigh, Anastasios C. Petkou	 Abstract: We discuss the implementation of electric-magnetic duality transformations in four-dimensional gravity linearized around Minkowski or (A)dS4 backgrounds. In the presence of a cosmological constant duality generically modifies the Hamiltonian, nevertheless the bulk dynamics is unchanged. We pay particular attention to the boundary terms generated by the duality transformations and discuss their implications for holography. 
0704.00532	Effect of transition-metal elements on the electronic properties of  quasicrystals and complex aluminides	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Guy Trambly De Laissardière (LPTM), Didier Mayou (NEEL)	 Abstract: In this paper, we briefly present our work on the role of transition-metal element in electronic structure and transport properties of quasicrystals and related complex phases. Several Parts of these works have been done or initiated in collaboration with Prof. T. Fujiwara. 
0704.00533	Non-resonant and Resonant X-ray Scattering Studies on Multiferroic  TbMn2O5	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:J. Koo, C. Song, S. Ji, J.-S. Lee, J. Park, T.-H. Jang, C.-H. Yang, J.-H. Park, Y. H. Jeong, K.-B. Lee, T. Y. Koo, Y. J. Park, J.-Y. Kim, D. Wemeille, A. I. Goldman, G. Srajer, S. Park, S.-W. Cheong	 Abstract: Comprehensive x-ray scattering studies, including resonant scattering at Mn L-edge, Tb L- and M-edges, were performed on single crystals of TbMn2O5. X-ray intensities were observed at a forbidden Bragg position in the ferroelectric phases, in addition to the lattice and the magnetic modulation peaks. Temperature dependences of their intensities and the relation between the modulation wave vectors provide direct evidences of exchange striction induced ferroelectricity. Resonant x-ray scattering results demonstrate the presence of multiple magnetic orders by exhibiting their different temperature dependences. The commensurate-to-incommensurate phase transition around 24 K is attributed to discommensuration through phase slipping of the magnetic orders in spin frustrated geometries. We proposed that the low temperature incommensurate phase consists of the commensurate magnetic domains separated by anti-phase domain walls which reduce spontaneous polarizations abruptly at the transition. 
0704.00534	Self-diffusion and Interdiffusion in Al80Ni20 Melts: Simulation and  Experiment	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Juergen Horbach, Subir K. Das, Axel Griesche, Michael-Peter Macht, Guenter Frohberg, Andreas Meyer	 Abstract: A combination of experimental techniques and molecular dynamics (MD) computer simulation is used to investigate the diffusion dynamics in Al80Ni20 melts. Experimentally, the self-diffusion coefficient of Ni is measured by the long-capillary (LC) method and by quasielastic neutron scattering. The LC method yields also the interdiffusion coefficient. Whereas the experiments were done in the normal liquid state, the simulations provided the determination of both self-diffusion and interdiffusion constants in the undercooled regime as well. The simulation results show good agreement with the experimental data. In the temperature range 3000 K >= T >= 715 K, the interdiffusion coefficient is larger than the self-diffusion constants. Furthermore the simulation shows that this difference becomes larger in the undercooled regime. This result can be refered to a relatively strong temperature dependence of the thermodynamic factor \Phi, which describes the thermodynamic driving force for interdiffusion. The simulations also indicate that the Darken equation is a good approximation, even in the undercooled regime. This implies that dynamic cross correlations play a minor role for the temperature range under consideration. 
0704.00535	The Formation of Globular Cluster Systems in Massive Elliptical  Galaxies: Globular Cluster Multimodality from Radial Variation of Stellar  Populations	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Antonio Pipino (1,3), Thomas H. Puzia (2,4), Francesca Matteucci (3) ((1) Astrophysics, University of Oxford, UK (2) Herzberg Institute of Astrophysics, Canada, (3) Dipartimento di Astronomia, Universita' di Trieste, Italy, (4) Space Telescope Science Institute, USA.)	 Abstract: The most massive elliptical galaxies show a prominent multi-modality in their globular cluster system color distributions. Understanding the mechanisms which lead to multiple globular cluster sub-populations is essential for a complete picture of massive galaxy formation. By assuming that globular cluster formation traces the total star formation and taking into account the radial variations in the composite stellar populations predicted by the Pipino & Matteucci (2004) multi-zone photo-chemical evolution code, we compute the distribution of globular cluster properties as a function of galactocentric radius. We compare our results to the spectroscopic measurements of globular clusters in nearby early-type galaxies by Puzia et al. (2006) and show that the observed multi-modality in globular cluster systems of massive ellipticals can be, at least partly, ascribed to the radial variation in the mix of stellar populations. Our model predicts the presence of a super-metal-rich population of globular clusters in the most massive elliptical galaxies, which is in very good agreement with the spectroscopic observations. Furthermore, we investigate the impact of other non-linear mechanisms that shape the metallicity distribution of globular cluster systems, in particular the role of merger-induced globular cluster formation and a non-linear color-metallicity transformation, and discuss their influence in the context of our model (abridged) 
0704.00536	Binaries, microquasars and GLAST	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Guillaume Dubus	 Abstract: Radio and X-ray observations of the relativistic jets of microquasars show evidence for the acceleration of particles to very high energies. Signatures of non-thermal processes occurring closer in to the compact object can also be found. In addition, three binaries are now established emitters of high (> 100 MeV) and/or very high (> 100GeV) energy gamma-rays. High-energy emission can originate from a microquasar jet (accretion-powered) or from a shocked pulsar wind (rotation-powered). I discuss the impact GLAST will have in the very near future on studies of such binaries. GLAST is expected to shed new light on the link between accretion and ejection in microquasars and to enable to probe pulsar winds on small scales in rotation-powered binaries. 
0704.00537	Linearisation of finite abelian subgroups of the Cremona group of the  plane	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Jérémy Blanc	 Abstract: This article gives the proof of results announced in [J. Blanc, Finite Abelian subgroups of the Cremona group of the plane, C.R. Acad. Sci. Paris, S\'er. I 344 (2007), 21-26.] and some description of automorphisms of rational surfaces. Given a finite Abelian subgroup of the Cremona group of the plane, we provide a way to decide whether it is birationally conjugate to a group of automorphisms of a minimal surface. In particular, we prove that a finite cyclic group of birational transformations of the plane is linearisable if and only if none of its non-trivial elements fix a curve of positive genus. For finite Abelian groups, there exists only one surprising exception, a group isomorphic to Z/2ZxZ/4Z, whose non-trivial elements do not fix a curve of positive genus but which is not conjugate to a group of automorphisms of a minimal rational surface. We also give some descriptions of automorphisms (not necessarily of finite order) of del Pezzo surfaces and conic bundles. 
0704.00538	Oriented growth of pentacene films on vacuum-deposited  polytetrafluoroethylene layers aligned by rubbing technique	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:M. Prelipceanu, O.S. Prelipceanu, O.G. Tudose, K. Grytsenko, S. Schrader	 Abstract: We investigated structure and morphology of PTFE layers deposited by vacuum process in dependence on deposition parameters: deposition rate, deposition temperature, electron activation energy and activation current. Pentacene (PnC) layers deposited on top of those PTFE films are used as a tool to demonstrate the orienting ability of the PTFE layers. The molecular structure of the PTFE films was investigated by use of infrared spectroscopy. By means of ellipsometry, values of refractive index between 1.33 and 1.36 have been obtained for PTFE films in dependence on deposition conditions. Using the cold friction technique orienting PTFE layers with unidirectional grooves are obtained. On top of these PTFE films oriented PnC layers were grown. The obtained order depends both on the PTFE layer thickness and on PnC growth temperature. 
0704.00539	Integral representations for convolutions of non-central multivariate  gamma distributions	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Thomas Royen	 Abstract: Three types of integral representations for the cumulative distribution functions of convolutions of non-central p-variate gamma distributions are given by integration of elementary complex functions over the p-cube Cp = (-pi,pi]x...x(-pi,pi]. In particular, the joint distribution of the diagonal elements of a generalized quadratic form XAX' with n independent normally distributed column vectors in X is obtained. For a single p-variate gamma distribution function (p-1)-variate integrals over Cp-1 are derived. The integrals are numerically more favourable than integrals obtained from the Fourier or laplace inversion formula. 
0704.00540	On the Achievable Rate Regions for Interference Channels with Degraded  Message Sets	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Jinhua Jiang, Xin Yan	 Abstract: The interference channel with degraded message sets (IC-DMS) refers to a communication model in which two senders attempt to communicate with their respective receivers simultaneously through a common medium, and one of the senders has complete and a priori (non-causal) knowledge about the message being transmitted by the other. A coding scheme that collectively has advantages of cooperative coding, collaborative coding, and dirty paper coding, is developed for such a channel. With resorting to this coding scheme, achievable rate regions of the IC-DMS in both discrete memoryless and Gaussian cases are derived, which, in general, include several previously known rate regions. Numerical examples for the Gaussian case demonstrate that in the high-interference-gain regime, the derived achievable rate regions offer considerable improvements over these existing results. 
0704.00541	On complete subsets of the cyclic group	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Y. O. Hamidoune, A.S. Lladó, O. Serra	 Abstract: A subset $X$ of an abelian $G$ is said to be {\em complete} if every element of the subgroup generated by $X$ can be expressed as a nonempty sum of distinct elements from $X$. Let $A\subset \Z_n$ be such that all the elements of $A$ are coprime with $n$. Solving a conjecture of Erd\H{o}s and Heilbronn, Olson proved that $A$ is complete if $n$ is a prime and if $|A|>2\sqrt{n}.$ Recently Vu proved that there is an absolute constant $c$, such that for an arbitrary large $n$, $A$ is complete if $|A|\ge c\sqrt{n},$ and conjectured that 2 is essentially the right value of $c$. We show that $A$ is complete if $|A|> 1+2\sqrt{n-4}$, thus proving the last conjecture. 
0704.00542	Hilbert functions of points on Schubert varieties in Orthogonal  Grassmannians	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:K. N. Raghavan, Shyamashree Upadhyay	 Abstract: A solution is given to the following problem: how to compute the multiplicity, or more generally the Hilbert function, at a point on a Schubert variety in an orthogonal Grassmannian. Standard monomial theory is applied to translate the problem from geometry to combinatorics. The solution of the resulting combinatorial problem forms the bulk of the paper. This approach has been followed earlier to solve the same problem for the Grassmannian and the symplectic Grassmannian. As an application, we present an interpretation of the multiplicity as the number of non-intersecting lattice paths of a certain kind. Taking the Schubert variety to be of a special kind and the point to be the "identity coset," our problem specializes to a problem about Pfaffian ideals treatments of which by different methods exist in the literature. Also available in the literature is a geometric solution when the point is a "generic singularity." 
0704.00543	Swift/XRT observes the fifth outburst of the periodic Supergiant Fast  X-ray Transient IGR J11215-5952	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. Romano (1,2), L. Sidoli (3), V. Mangano (4), S. Mereghetti (3), G. Cusumano (4) ((1) INAF-OABrera, (2) Univ.Bicocca, (3) INAF-IASF Mi, (4) INAF-IASF Pa)	 Abstract: IGR J11215-5952 is a hard X-ray transient source discovered in April 2005 with INTEGRAL and a confirmed member of the new class of High Mass X-ray Binaries, the Supergiant Fast X-ray Transients (SFXTs). Archival INTEGRAL data and RXTE observations showed that the outbursts occur with a periodicity of ~330 days. Thus, IGR J11215-5952 is the first SFXT displaying periodic outbursts, possibly related to the orbital period. We performed a Target of Opportunity observation with Swift with the main aim of monitoring the source behaviour around the time of the fifth outburst, expected on 2007 Feb 9. The source field was observed with Swift twice a day (2ks/day) starting from 4th February, 2007, until the fifth outburst, and then for ~5 ks a day afterwards, during a monitoring campaign that lasted 23 days for a total on-source exposure of ~73 ks. This is the most complete monitoring campaign of an outburst from a SFXT. The spectrum during the brightest flares is well described by an absorbed power law with a photon index of 1 and N_H~1 10^22 cm^-2. A 1-10 keV peak luminosity of ~10^36 erg s^-1 was derived (assuming 6.2 kpc, the distance of the optical counterpart). These Swift observations are a unique data-set for an outburst of a SFXT, thanks to the combination of sensitivity and time coverage, and they allowed a study of IGR J11215-5952 from outburst onset to almost quiescence. We find that the accretion phase lasts longer than previously thought on the basis of lower sensitivity instruments observing only the brightest flares. The observed phenomenology is consistent with a smoothly increasing flux triggered at the periastron passage in a wide eccentric orbit with many flares superimposed, possibly due to episodic or inhomogeneous accretion. 
0704.00544	Crossover behavior in fluids with Coulomb interactions	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:O.V. Patsahan, J.-M. Caillol, I.M. Mryglod	 Abstract: According to extensive experimental findings, the Ginzburg temperature $t_{G}$ for ionic fluids differs substantially from that of nonionic fluids [Schr\"oer W., Weig\"{a}rtner H. 2004 {\it Pure Appl. Chem.} {\bf 76} 19]. A theoretical investigation of this outcome is proposed here by a mean field analysis of the interplay of short and long range interactions on the value of $t_{G}$. We consider a quite general continuous charge-asymmetric model made of charged hard spheres with additional short-range interactions (without electrostatic interactions the model belongs to the same universality class as the 3D Ising model). The effective Landau-Ginzburg Hamiltonian of the full system near its gas-liquid critical point is derived from which the Ginzburg temperature is calculated as a function of the ionicity. The results obtained in this way for $t_{G}$ are in good qualitative and sufficient quantitative agreement with available experimental data. 
0704.00545	Reply to Comment of Kenzelmann and Harris	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Maxim Mostovoy	 Abstract: In response to the comment of Kenzelmann and Harris I show how the continuum theory of spiral multiferroics can be modified to describe general magnetic orders and discuss why the microscopic mechanism of magnetically-induced ferroelectricity usually makes such modifications unnecessary. This explains why the simple model with a single vector order parameter successfully describes thermodynamics and magnetoelectric properties of many spiral multiferroics. 
0704.00546	Persistent Currents in Superconducting Quantum Interference Devices	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:F. Romeo, R. De Luca	 Abstract: Starting from the reduced dynamical model of a two-junction quantum interference device, a quantum analog of the system has been exhibited, in order to extend the well known properties of this device to the quantum regime. By finding eigenvalues of the corresponding Hamiltonian operator, the persistent currents flowing in the ring have been obtained. The resulting quantum analog of the overdamped two-junction quantum interference device can be seen as a supercurrent qubit operating in the limit of negligible capacitance and finite inductance. 
0704.00547	Mid-Infrared Fine Structure Line Ratios in Active Galactic Nuclei  Observed with Spitzer IRS: Evidence for Extinction by the Torus	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. P. Dudik, J. C. Weingartner, S. Satyapal, J. Fischer, C. C. Dudley, B. O'Halloran	 Abstract: We present the first systematic investigation of the [NeV] (14um/24um) and [SIII] (18um/33um) infrared line flux ratios, traditionally used to estimate the density of the ionized gas, in a sample of 41 Type 1 and Type 2 active galactic nuclei (AGNs) observed with the Infrared Spectrograph on board Spitzer. The majority of galaxies with both [NeV] lines detected have observed [NeV] line flux ratios consistent with or below the theoretical low density limit, based on calculations using currently available collision strengths and ignoring absorption and stimulated emission. We find that Type 2 AGNs have lower line flux ratios than Type 1 AGNs and that all of the galaxies with line flux ratios below the low density limit are Type 2 AGNs. We argue that differential infrared extinction to the [NeV] emitting region due to dust in the obscuring torus is responsible for the ratios below the low density limit and we suggest that the ratio may be a tracer of the inclination angle of the torus to our line of sight. Because the temperature of the gas, the amount of extinction, and the effect of absorption and stimulated emission on the line ratios are all unknown, we are not able to determine the electron densities associated with the [NeV] line flux ratios for the objects in our sample. We also find that the [SIII] emission from the galaxies in our sample is extended and originates primarily in star forming regions. Since the emission from low-ionization species is extended, any analysis using line flux ratios from such species obtained from slits of different sizes is invalid for most nearby galaxies. 
0704.00548	Neutrinos and Non-proliferation in Europe	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:M. Cribier (APC)	 Abstract: Triggered by the demand of the IAEA, neutrino physicists in Europe involved with the Double Chooz experiment are studying the potential of neutrino detection to monitor nuclear reactors. In particular a new set of experiments at the ILL is planned to improve the knowledge of the neutrino spectrum emitted in the fission of 235U and 239Pu. 
0704.00549	Kinks and Particles in Non-integrable Quantum Field Theories	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Giuseppe Mussardo	 Abstract: In this talk we discuss an elementary derivation of the semi-classical spectrum of neutral particles in two field theories with kink excitations. We also show that, in the non-integrable cases, each vacuum state cannot generically support more than two stable particles, since all other neutral exitations are resonances, which will eventually decay. 
0704.00550	The old open clusters Berkeley 32 and King 11	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Monica Tosi (1), Angela Bragaglia (1), Michele Cignoni (1,2) ((1): INAF-Osserv. Astron. Bologna (2): Astronomy Dept., Bologna Univ.)	 Abstract: We have obtained CCD BVI imaging of the old open clusters Berkeley 32 and King 11. Using the synthetic colour-magnitude diagram method with three different sets of stellar evolution models of various metallicities, with and without overshooting, we have determined their age, distance, reddening, and indicative metallicity, as well as distance from the Galactic centre and height from the Galactic plane. The best parameters derived for Berkeley 32 are: subsolar metallicity (Z=0.008 represents the best choice, Z=0.006 or 0.01 are more marginally acceptable), age = 5.0-5.5 Gyr (models with overshooting; without overshooting the age is 4.2-4.4 Gyr with poorer agreement), (m-M)_0=12.4-12.6, E(B-V)=0.12-0.18 (with the lower value being more probable because it corresponds to the best metallicity), Rgc ~ 10.7-11 kpc, and |Z| ~ 231-254 pc. The best parameters for King 11 are: Z=0.01, age=3.5-4.75 Gyr, (m-M)_0=11.67-11.75, E(B-V)=1.03-1.06, Rgc ~ 9.2-10 kpc, and |Z| ~ 253-387 pc. 
0704.00551	The Genetic Programming Collaboration Network and its Communities	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:L. Luthi, M. Tomassini, M. Giacobini, B. W. Langdon	 Abstract: Useful information about scientific collaboration structures and patterns can be inferred from computer databases of published papers. The genetic programming bibliography is the most complete reference of papers on GP\@. In addition to locating publications, it contains coauthor and coeditor relationships from which a more complete picture of the field emerges. We treat these relationships as undirected small world graphs whose study reveals the community structure of the GP collaborative social network. Automatic analysis discovers new communities and highlights new facets of them. The investigation reveals many similarities between GP and coauthorship networks in other scientific fields but also some subtle differences such as a smaller central network component and a high clustering. 
0704.00552	The Expanding Photosphere Method: Progress and Problems	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. Vinko, K. Takats	 Abstract: Distances to well-observed Type II-P SNe are determined from an updated version of the Expanding Photosphere Method (EPM), based on recent theoretical models. The new EPM distances show good agreement with other independent distances to the host galaxies without any significant systematic bias, contrary to earlier results in the literature. The accuracy of the method is comparable with that of the distance measurements for Type Ia SNe. 
0704.00553	Spontaneous Lorentz Violation: Non-Abelian Gauge Fields as  Pseudo-Goldstone Vector Bosons	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:J.L. Chkareuli, J.G. Jejelava	 Abstract: We argue that non-Abelian gauge fields can be treated as the pseudo-Goldstone vector bosons caused by spontaneous Lorentz invariance violation (SLIV). To this end, the SLIV which evolves in a general Yang-Mills type theory with the nonlinear vector field constraint $Tr(% \boldsymbol{A}_{\mu }\boldsymbol{A}^{\mu})=\pm M^{2}$ ($M$ is a proposed SLIV scale) imposed is considered in detail. With an internal symmetry group $G$ having $D$ generators not only the pure Lorentz symmetry SO(1,3), but the larger accidental symmetry $SO(D,3D)$ of the SLIV constraint in itself appears to be spontaneously broken as well. As a result, while the pure Lorentz violation still generates only one genuine Goldstone vector boson, the accompanying pseudo-Goldstone vector bosons related to the $SO(D,3D)$ breaking also come into play in the final arrangement of the entire Goldstone vector field multiplet. Remarkably, they remain strictly massless, being protected by gauge invariance of the Yang-Mills theory involved. We show that, although this theory contains a plethora of Lorentz and $CPT$ violating couplings, they do not lead to physical SLIV effects which turn out to be strictly cancelled in all the lowest order processes considered. However, the physical Lorentz violation could appear if the internal gauge invariance were slightly broken at very small distances influenced by gravity. For the SLIV scale comparable with the Planck one the Lorentz violation could become directly observable at low energies. 
0704.00554	In-medium effects on particle production in heavy ion collisions	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:V. Prassa, G. Ferini, T. Gaitanos, H.H. Wolter, G.A. Lalazissis, M. Di Toro	 Abstract: The effect of possible in-medium modifications of nucleon-nucleon ($NN$) cross sections on particle production is investigated in heavy ion collisions ($HIC$) at intermediate energies. In particular, using a fully covariant relativistic transport approach, we see that the density dependence of the {\it inelastic} cross sections appreciably affects the pion and kaon yields and their rapidity distributions. However, the $(\pi^{-}/\pi^{+})$- and $(K^{0}/K^{+})$-ratios depend only moderately on the in-medium behavior of the inelastic cross sections. This is particularly true for kaon yield ratios, since kaons are more uniformly produced in high density regions. Kaon potentials are also suitably evaluated in two schemes, a chiral perturbative approach and an effective meson-quark coupling method, with consistent results showing a similar repulsive contribution for $K^{+}$ and $K^{0}$. As a consequence we expect rather reduced effects on the yield ratios. We conclude that particle ratios appear to be robust observables for probing the nuclear equation of state ($EoS$) at high baryon density and, particularly, its isovector sector. 
0704.00555	The Graham conjecture implies the Erdos-Turan conjecture	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Liangpan Li	 Abstract: Erd\"{o}s and Tur\'{a}n once conjectured that any set $A\subset\mathbb{N}$ with $\sum_{a\in A}{1}/{a}=\infty$ should contain infinitely many progressions of arbitrary length $k\geq3$. For the two-dimensional case Graham conjectured that if $B\subset \mathbb{N}\times\mathbb{N}$ satisfies $$\sum\limits_{(x,y)\in B}\frac{1}{x^2+y^2}=\infty,$$ then for any $s\geq2$, $B$ contains an $s\times s$ axes-parallel grid. In this paper it is shown that if the Graham conjecture is true for some $s\geq2$, then the Erd\"{o}s-Tur\'{a}n conjecture is true for $k=2s-1$. 
0704.00556	Effective conservation of energy and momentum algorithm using switching  potentials suitable for molecular dynamics simulation of thermodynamical  systems	Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)	Authors:Christopher G Jesudason	 Abstract: During a crossover via a switching mechanism from one 2-body potential to another as might be applied in modeling (chemical) reactions in the vicinity of bond formation, energy violations would occur due to finite step size which determines the trajectory of the particles relative to the potential interactions of the unbonded state by numerical (e.g. Verlet) integration. This problem is overcome by an algorithm which preserves the coordinates of the system for each move, but corrects for energy discrepancies by ensuring both energy and momentum conservation in the dynamics. The algorithm is tested for a hysteresis loop reaction model with an without the implementation of the algorithm. The tests involve checking the rate of energy flow out of the MD simulation box; in the equilibrium state, no net rate of flows within experimental error should be observed. The temperature and pressure of the box should also be invariant within the range of fluctuation of these quantities. It is demonstrated that the algorithm satisfies these criteria. 
0704.00557	Mixed chemistry phenomenon during late stages of stellar evolution	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. Szczerba, M.R. Schmidt, M. Pulecka	 Abstract: We discuss phenomenon of simultaneous presence of O- and C-based material in surroundings of evolutionary advanced stars. We concentrate on silicate carbon stars and present observations that directly confirm the binary model scenario for them. We discuss also class of C-stars with OH emission detected, to which some [WR] planetary nebulae do belong. 
0704.00558	M-regularity of the Fano surface	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Andreas Höring	 Abstract: Let $(A,\Theta)$ be a principally polarised abelian variety, and let Y be a subvariety. Pareschi and Popa conjectured that Y has minimal cohomology class if and only if the structure sheaf of Y satisfies a property that they call M-regularity. Let now X be a smooth cubic threefold. By a classical result due to Clemens and Griffiths, its intermediate Jacobian J(X) is a principally polarised abelian variety; furthermore the Fano surface of lines on X can be embedded in J(X) and has minimal cohomology class. In this short note we show that its structure sheaf is M-regular. 
0704.00559	Signal for space-time noncommutativity: the Z -> gamma gamma decay in  the renormalizable gauge sector of the theta-expanded NCSM	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Josip Trampetic	 Abstract: We propose the Z -> gamma gamma decay, a process strictly forbidden in the standard model, as a signal suitable for the search of noncommutativity of coordinates at very short distances. We compute the Z -> gamma gamma partial widthin the framework of the recently proposed renormalizable gauge sector of the noncommutative standard model. The one-loop renormalizability is obtained for the model containing the usual six representations of matter fields of the first generation. Even more, the noncommutative part is finite or free of divergences, showing that perhaps new interaction symmetry exists in the noncommutative gauge sector of the model. Discovery of such symmetry would be of tremendous importance in further search for the violation of the Lorentz invariance at very high energies. Experimental possibilities of Z -> gamma gamma decay are analyzed and a firm bound to the scale of the noncommutativity parameter is set around 1 TeV. 
0704.00560	Laser spectroscopy of hyperfine structure in highly-charged ions: a test  of QED at high fields	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:D.F.A. Winters, M. Vogel, D.M. Segal, R.C. Thompson, W. Noertershaeuser	 Abstract: An overview is presented of laser spectroscopy experiments with cold, trapped, highly-charged ions, which will be performed at the HITRAP facility at GSI in Darmstadt (Germany). These high-resolution measurements of ground state hyperfine splittings will be three orders of magnitude more precise than previous measurements. Moreover, from a comparison of measurements of the hyperfine splittings in hydrogen- and lithium-like ions of the same isotope, QED effects at high electromagnetic fields can be determined within a few percent. Several candidate ions suited for these laser spectroscopy studies are presented. 
0704.00561	Confinement into a state with persistent current by thermal quenching of  loop of Josephson junctions	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Jorge Berger	 Abstract: We study a loop of Josephson junctions that is quenched through its critical temperature. For three or more junctions, symmetry breaking states can be achieved without thermal activation, in spite of the fact that the relaxation time is practically constant when the critical temperature is approached from above. The probability for these states decreases with quenching time, but the dependence is not allometric. For large number of junctions, cooling does not have to be fast. For this case, we evaluate the standard deviation of the induced flux. Our results are consistent with the available experimental data. 
0704.00562	Frequency modulation Fourier transform spectroscopy	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Julien Mandon (PPM), Guy Guelachvili (PPM), Nathalie Picqué (PPM)	 Abstract: A new method, FM-FTS, combining Frequency Modulation heterodyne laser spectroscopy and Fourier Transform Spectroscopy is presented. It provides simultaneous sensitive measurement of absorption and dispersion profiles with broadband spectral coverage capabilities. Experimental demonstration is made on the overtone spectrum of C2H2 in the 1.5 $\mu$m region. 
0704.00563	Universe Without Singularities. A Group Approach to De Sitter Cosmology	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Ignazio Licata	 Abstract: In the last years the traditional scenario of Big Bang has been deeply modified by the study of the quantum features of the Universe evolution, proposing again the problem of using local physical laws on cosmic scale, with particular regard to the cosmological constant role. The group extention method shows that the De Sitter group univocally generalizes the Poincare group, formally justifies the cosmological constant use and suggests a new interpretation for Hartle-Hawking boundary conditions in Quantum Cosmology. 
0704.00564	Spectral action on noncommutative torus	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:D. Essouabri, B. Iochum, C. Levy, A. Sitarz	 Abstract: The spectral action on noncommutative torus is obtained, using a Chamseddine--Connes formula via computations of zeta functions. The importance of a Diophantine condition is outlined. Several results on holomorphic continuation of series of holomorphic functions are obtained in this context. 
0704.00565	The Lifshitz-Slyozov-Wagner equation for reaction-controlled kinetics	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Apostolos Damialis	 Abstract: We rigorously derive a weak form of the Lifshitz-Slyozov-Wagner equation as the homogenization limit of a Stefan-type problem describing reaction-controlled coarsening of a large number of small spherical particles. Moreover, we deduce that the effective mean-field description holds true in the particular limit of vanishing surface-area density of particles. 
0704.00566	Canonical singular hermitian metrics on relative canonical bundles	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Hajime Tsuji	 Abstract: We introduce a new class of canonical AZD's (called the supercanonical AZD's) on the canonical bundles of smooth projective varieties with pseudoeffective canonical classes. We study the variation of the supercanonical AZD $\hat{h}_{can}$ under projective deformations and give a new proof of the invariance of plurigenera. 
0704.00567	Yield Curve Shapes and the Asymptotic Short Rate Distribution in Affine  One-Factor Models	Pricing of Securities (q-fin.PR)	Authors:Martin Keller-Ressel, Thomas Steiner	 Abstract: We consider a model for interest rates, where the short rate is given by a time-homogenous, one-dimensional affine process in the sense of Duffie, Filipovic and Schachermayer. We show that in such a model yield curves can only be normal, inverse or humped (i.e. endowed with a single local maximum). Each case can be characterized by simple conditions on the present short rate. We give conditions under which the short rate process will converge to a limit distribution and describe the limit distribution in terms of its cumulant generating function. We apply our results to the Vasicek model, the CIR model, a CIR model with added jumps and a model of Ornstein-Uhlenbeck type. 
0704.00568	Thermally Stimulated Luminescence and Current in new heterocyclic  materials for Organic field transistors and organic light emitting diodes	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:M.Prelipceanu, O.S. Prelipceanu, O.G. Tudose, S. Schrader	 Abstract: The present work is focused on theoretical and experimental study of localised levels in organic materials suitable for light-emitting devices and field effect transistors by means of thermal techniques. In our work we focused on low molecular compounds as well as on polymers, especially of two classes of materials: oxadiazoles and quinoxalines. Both organic compounds are well know as electron transport materials in OLEDs. 
0704.00569	A microfluidic device based on droplet storage for screening solubility  diagrams	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:P. Laval, N. Lisai, J.-B. Salmon, M. Joanicot	 Abstract: This work describes a new microfluidic device developed for rapid screening of solubility diagrams. In several parallel channels, hundreds of nanoliter-volume droplets of a given solution are first stored with a gradual variation in the solute concentration. Then, the application of a temperature gradient along these channels enables us to read directly and quantitatively phase diagrams, concentration vs. temperature. We show, using a solution of adipic acid, that we can measure ten points of the solubility curve in less than 1 hr and with only 250 $\mu$L of solution. 
0704.00570	Composite fermion wave functions as conformal field theory correlators	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Hans Hansson, Chia-Chen Chang, Jainendra Jain, Susanne Viefers	 Abstract: It is known that a subset of fractional quantum Hall wave functions has been expressed as conformal field theory (CFT) correlators, notably the Laughlin wave function at filling factor $\nu=1/m$ ($m$ odd) and its quasiholes, and the Pfaffian wave function at $\nu=1/2$ and its quasiholes. We develop a general scheme for constructing composite-fermion (CF) wave functions from conformal field theory. Quasiparticles at $\nu=1/m$ are created by inserting anyonic vertex operators, $P_{\frac{1}{m}}(z)$, that replace a subset of the electron operators in the correlator. The one-quasiparticle wave function is identical to the corresponding CF wave function, and the two-quasiparticle wave function has correct fractional charge and statistics and is numerically almost identical to the corresponding CF wave function. We further show how to exactly represent the CF wavefunctions in the Jain series $\nu = s/(2sp+1)$ as the CFT correlators of a new type of fermionic vertex operators, $V_{p,n}(z)$, constructed from $n$ free compactified bosons; these operators provide the CFT representation of composite fermions carrying $2p$ flux quanta in the $n^{\rm th}$ CF Landau level. We also construct the corresponding quasiparticle- and quasihole operators and argue that they have the expected fractional charge and statistics. For filling fractions 2/5 and 3/7 we show that the chiral CFTs that describe the bulk wave functions are identical to those given by Wen's general classification of quantum Hall states in terms of $K$-matrices and $l$- and $t$-vectors, and we propose that to be generally true. Our results suggest a general procedure for constructing quasiparticle wave functions for other fractional Hall states, as well as for constructing ground states at filling fractions not contained in the principal Jain series. 
0704.00571	$\Bz\to\pip\pim\piz$ Time Dependent Dalitz analysis at BaBar	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:Gianluca Cavoto	 Abstract: I present here results of a time-dependent analysis of the Dalitz structure of neutral $B$ meson decays to $\pip\pim\piz$ from a dataset of 346 million $B \bar B$ pairs collected at the $\Upsilon(4S)$ center of mass energy by the BaBar detector at the SLAC PEP-II $e^+e^-$ accelerator. No significant CP violation effects are observed and 68% confidence interval is derived on the weak angle $\alpha$ to be [75$^o$,152$^o$] 
0704.00572	New Organic thermally stable materials for optoelectronics devices - A  linear spectroscopy study	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:O.S. Prelipceanu, M. Prelipceanu, O.G. Tudose, B. Grimm, S. Schrader	 Abstract: Thermally stable polymers have attracted a lot of interest due to their potential use as the active component in electronic, optical and optoelectronic applications, such as light-emitting diodes, light emitting electrochemical cells, photodiodes, photovoltaic cells, field effect transistors, optocouplers and optically pumped lasers in solution and solid state.We report results of investigations into the use of thermal treatment of poly(p-phenylene vinylene) (PPV) films grown on a variety of substrates (quartz and glass). Film thickness, morphology and structural properties were investigated by a range of techniques in particular: atomic force microscope - AFM, DEKTAK method, Ellipsometry and UV-VIS spectroscopy. 
0704.00573	Elativistic treatment in}$D$ - Dimensions to a spin-zero particle with  noncentral equal scalar and vector ring-shaped Kratzer potential	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever	 Abstract: The Klein-Gordon equation in D-dimensions for a recently proposed Kratzer potential plus ring-shaped potential is solved analytically by means of the conventional Nikiforov-Uvarov method. The exact energy bound-states and the corresponding wave functions of the Klein-Gordon are obtained in the presence of the noncentral equal scalar and vector potentials. The results obtained in this work are more general and can be reduced to the standard forms in three-dimensions given by other works. 
0704.00574	On the potential of transit surveys in star clusters: Impact of  correlated noise and radial velocity follow-up	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Suzanne Aigrain (IoA Cambridge, University of Exeter), Frederic Pont (Geneva Observatory)	 Abstract: We present an extension of the formalism recently proposed by Pepper & Gaudi to evaluate the yield of transit surveys in homogeneous stellar systems, incorporating the impact of correlated noise on transit time-scales on the detectability of transits, and simultaneously incorporating the magnitude limits imposed by the need for radial velocity follow-up of transit candidates. New expressions are derived for the different contributions to the noise budget on transit time-scales and the least-squares detection statistic for box-shaped transits, and their behaviour as a function of stellar mass is re-examined. Correlated noise that is constant with apparent stellar magnitude implies a steep decrease in detection probability at the high mass end which, when considered jointly with the radial velocity requirements, can severely limit the potential of otherwise promising surveys in star clusters. However, we find that small-aperture, wide field surveys may detect hot Neptunes whose radial velocity signal can be measured with present-day instrumentation in very nearby (<100 pc) clusters. 
0704.00575	A non-perturbative proof of Bertrand's theorem	Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)	Authors:F C Santos, V Soares, A C Tort	 Abstract: We discuss an alternative non-perturbative proof of Bertrand's theorem that leads in a concise way directly to the two allowed fields: the newtonian and the isotropic harmonic oscillator central fields. 
0704.00576	Neutron-Capture Elements in the Double-Enhanced Star HE 1305-0007: a New  s- and r-Process Paradigm	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Wen-Yuan Cui (1,2,3), D. N. Cui (1), Y. S. Du (1), B. Zhang (1) ((1) Department of Physics, Hebei Normal University, China, (2) National Astronomical observatories, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China, (3) Graduate School of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, China)	 Abstract: The star HE 1305-0007 is a metal-poor double-enhanced star with metallicity [Fe/H] $=-2.0$, which is just at the upper limit of the metallicity for the observed double-enhanced stars. Using a parametric model, we find that almost all s-elements were made in a single neutron exposure. This star should be a member of a post-common-envelope binary. After the s-process material has experienced only one neutron exposure in the nucleosynthesis region and is dredged-up to its envelope, the AGB evolution is terminated by the onset of common-envelope evolution. Based on the high radial-velocity of HE 1305-0007, we speculate that the star could be a runaway star from a binary system, in which the AIC event has occurred and produced the r-process elements. 
0704.00577	Membrane in M5-branes Background	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Wei-shui Xu, Ding-fang Zeng	 Abstract: In this paper, we investigate the properties of a membrane in the M5-brane background. Through solving the classical equations of motion of the membrane, we can understand the classical dynamics of the membrane in this background. 
0704.00578	3D photospheric velocity field of a Supergranular cell	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Dario Del Moro, Silvia Giordano, Francesco Berrilli	 Abstract: We investigate the plasma flow properties inside a Supergranular (SG) cell, in particular its interaction with small scale magnetic field structures. The SG cell has been identified using the magnetic network (CaII wing brightness) as proxy, applying the Two-Level Structure Tracking (TST) to high spatial, spectral and temporal resolution observations obtained by IBIS. The full 3D velocity vector field for the SG has been reconstructed at two different photospheric heights. In order to strengthen our findings, we also computed the mean radial flow of the SG by means of cork tracing. We also studied the behaviour of the horizontal and Line of Sight plasma flow cospatial with cluster of bright CaII structures of magnetic origin to better understand the interaction between photospheric convection and small scale magnetic features. The SG cell we investigated seems to be organized with an almost radial flow from its centre to the border. The large scale divergence structure is probably created by a compact region of constant up-flow close to the cell centre. On the edge of the SG, isolated regions of strong convergent flow are nearby or cospatial with extended clusters of bright CaII wing features forming the knots of the magnetic network. 
0704.00579	Substructures in WINGS clusters	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Ramella, A. Biviano, A. Pisani, J. Varela, D. Bettoni, W.J. Couch, M. D'Onofrio, A. Dressler, G. Fasano, P. Kjaergaard, M. Moles, E. Pignatelli, B.M. Poggianti	 Abstract: We search for and characterize substructures in the projected distribution of galaxies observed in the wide field CCD images of the 77 nearby clusters of the WIde-field Nearby Galaxy-cluster Survey (WINGS). This sample is complete in X-ray flux in the redshift range 0.04<z<0.07. We search for substructures in WINGS clusters with DEDICA, an adaptive-kernel procedure. We test the procedure on Monte-Carlo simulations of the observed frames and determine the reliability for the detected structures. DEDICA identifies at least one reliable structure in the field of 55 clusters. 40 of these clusters have a total of 69 substructures at the same redshift of the cluster (redshift estimates of substructures are from color-magnitude diagrams). The fraction of clusters with subclusters (73%) is higher than in most studies. The presence of subclusters affects the relative luminosities of the brightest cluster galaxies (BCGs). Down to L ~ 10^11.2 L_Sun, our observed differential distribution of subcluster luminosities is consistent with the theoretical prediction of the differential mass function of substructures in cosmological simulations. 
0704.00580	Ising-like dynamics and frozen states in systems of ultrafine magnetic  particles	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Stefanie Russ, Armin Bunde	 Abstract: We use Monte-Carlo simulations to study aging phenomena and the occurence of spinglass phases in systems of single-domain ferromagnetic nanoparticles under the combined influence of dipolar interaction and anisotropy energy, for different combinations of positional and orientational disorder. We find that the magnetic moments oriente themselves preferably parallel to their anisotropy axes and changes of the total magnetization are solely achieved by 180 degree flips of the magnetic moments, as in Ising systems. Since the dipolar interaction favorizes the formation of antiparallel chain-like structures, antiparallel chain-like patterns are frozen in at low temperatures, leading to aging phenomena characteristic for spin-glasses. Contrary to the intuition, these aging effects are more pronounced in ordered than in disordered structures. 
0704.00581	Counting characters in linear group actions	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Thomas Michael Keller	 Abstract: Let $G$ be a finite group and $V$ be a finite $G$--module. We present upper bounds for the cardinalities of certain subsets of $\Irr(GV)$, such as the set of those $\chi\in\Irr(GV)$ such that, for a fixed $v\in V$, the restriction of $\chi$ to $<v>$ is not a multiple of the regular character of $<v>$. These results might be useful in attacking the non--coprime $k(GV)$--problem. 
0704.00582	Continuous interfaces with disorder: Even strong pinning is too weak in  2 dimensions	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:C. Kuelske, E. Orlandi	 Abstract: We consider statistical mechanics models of continuous height effective interfaces in the presence of a delta-pinning at height zero. There is a detailed mathematical understanding of the depinning transition in 2 dimensions without disorder. Then the variance of the interface height w.r.t. the Gibbs measure stays bounded uniformly in the volume for any positive pinning force and diverges like the logarithm of the pinning force when it tends to zero. How does the presence of a quenched disorder term in the Hamiltonian modify this transition? We show that an arbitarily weak random field term is enough to beat an arbitrarily strong delta-pinning in 2 dimensions and will cause delocalization. The proof is based on a rigorous lower bound for the overlap between local magnetizations and random fields in finite volume. In 2 dimensions it implies growth faster than the volume which is a contradiction to localization. We also derive a simple complementary inequality which shows that in higher dimensions the fraction of pinned sites converges to one when the pinning force tends to infinity. 
0704.00583	On the KK-theory of strongly self-absorbing C*-algebras	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Marius Dadarlat, Wilhelm Winter	 Abstract: Let $\Dh$ and $A$ be unital and separable $C^{*}$-algebras; let $\Dh$ be strongly self-absorbing. It is known that any two unital $^*$-homomorphisms from $\Dh$ to $A \otimes \Dh$ are approximately unitarily equivalent. We show that, if $\Dh$ is also $K_{1}$-injective, they are even asymptotically unitarily equivalent. This in particular implies that any unital endomorphism of $\Dh$ is asymptotically inner. Moreover, the space of automorphisms of $\Dh$ is compactly-contractible (in the point-norm topology) in the sense that for any compact Hausdorff space $X$, the set of homotopy classes $[X,\Aut(\Dh)]$ reduces to a point. The respective statement holds for the space of unital endomorphisms of $\Dh$. As an application, we give a description of the Kasparov group $KK(\Dh, A\ot \Dh)$ in terms of $^*$-homomorphisms and asymptotic unitary equivalence. Along the way, we show that the Kasparov group $KK(\Dh, A\ot \Dh)$ is isomorphic to $K_0(A\ot \Dh)$. 
0704.00584	Effective interactions from q-deformed inspired transformations	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:V.S. Timoteo, C.L. Lima	 Abstract: From the mass term for the transformed quark fields, we obtain effective contact interactions of the NJL type. The parameters of the model that maps a system of non-interacting transformed fields into quarks interacting via NJL contact terms are discussed. 
0704.00585	Magnetospectroscopy of epitaxial few-layer graphene	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:M.L. Sadowski, G. Martinez, M. Potemski, C. Berger, W.A. de Heer	 Abstract: The inter-Landau level transitions observed in far-infrared transmission experiments on few-layer graphene samples show a behaviour characteristic of the linear dispersion expected in graphene. This behaviour persists in relatively thick samples, and is qualitatively different from that of thin samples of bulk graphite. 
0704.00586	Dust Formation and Survival in Supernova Ejecta	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Bianchi, R. Schneider	 Abstract: The presence of dust at high redshift requires efficient condensation of grains in SN ejecta, in accordance with current theoretical models. Yet, observations of the few well studied SNe and SN remnants imply condensation efficiencies which are about two orders of magnitude smaller. Motivated by this tension, we have (i) revisited the model of Todini & Ferrara (2001) for dust formation in the ejecta of core collapse SNe and (ii) followed, for the first time, the evolution of newly condensed grains from the time of formation to their survival - through the passage of the reverse shock - in the SN remnant. We find that 0.1 - 0.6 M_sun of dust form in the ejecta of 12 - 40 M_sun stellar progenitors. Depending on the density of the surrounding ISM, between 2-20% of the initial dust mass survives the passage of the reverse shock, on time-scales of about 4-8 x 10^4 yr from the stellar explosion. Sputtering by the hot gas induces a shift of the dust size distribution towards smaller grains. The resulting dust extinction curve shows a good agreement with that derived by observations of a reddened QSO at z =6.2. Stochastic heating of small grains leads to a wide distribution of dust temperatures. This supports the idea that large amounts (~ 0.1 M_sun) of cold dust (T ~ 40K) can be present in SN remnants, without being in conflict with the observed IR emission. 
0704.00587	Preferential interaction coefficient for nucleic acids and other  cylindrical poly-ions	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:E. Trizac, G. Tellez	 Abstract: The thermodynamics of nucleic acid processes is heavily affected by the electric double-layer of micro-ions around the polyions. We focus here on the Coulombic contribution to the salt-polyelectrolyte preferential interaction (Donnan) coefficient and we report extremely accurate analytical expressions valid in the range of low salt concentration (when polyion radius is smaller than the Debye length). The analysis is performed at Poisson-Boltzmann level, in cylindrical geometry, with emphasis on highly charged poly-ions (beyond ``counter-ion condensation''). The results hold for any electrolyte of the form $z_-$:$z_+$. We also obtain a remarkably accurate expression for the electric potential in the vicinity of the poly-ion. 
0704.00588	A new approach to mutual information	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:F. Hiai, D. Petz	 Abstract: A new expression as a certain asymptotic limit via "discrete micro-states" of permutations is provided to the mutual information of both continuous and discrete random variables. 
0704.00589	Analysis of the real estate market in Las Vegas: Bubble, seasonal  patterns, and prediction of the CSW indexes	General Finance (q-fin.GN)	Authors:Wei-Xing Zhou (ECUST), Didier Sornette (ETH Zurich)	 Abstract: We analyze 27 house price indexes of Las Vegas from Jun. 1983 to Mar. 2005, corresponding to 27 different zip codes. These analyses confirm the existence of a real-estate bubble, defined as a price acceleration faster than exponential, which is found however to be confined to a rather limited time interval in the recent past from approximately 2003 to mid-2004 and has progressively transformed into a more normal growth rate comparable to pre-bubble levels in 2005. There has been no bubble till 2002 except for a medium-sized surge in 1990. In addition, we have identified a strong yearly periodicity which provides a good potential for fine-tuned prediction from month to month. A monthly monitoring using a model that we have developed could confirm, by testing the intra-year structure, if indeed the market has returned to ``normal'' or if more turbulence is expected ahead. We predict the evolution of the indexes one year ahead, which is validated with new data up to Sep. 2006. The present analysis demonstrates the existence of very significant variations at the local scale, in the sense that the bubble in Las Vegas seems to have preceded the more global USA bubble and has ended approximately two years earlier (mid 2004 for Las Vegas compared with mid-2006 for the whole of the USA). 
0704.00590	A Low Complexity Algorithm and Architecture for Systematic Encoding of  Hermitian Codes	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Rachit Agarwal, Ralf Koetter, Emanuel Popovici	 Abstract: We present an algorithm for systematic encoding of Hermitian codes. For a Hermitian code defined over GF(q^2), the proposed algorithm achieves a run time complexity of O(q^2) and is suitable for VLSI implementation. The encoder architecture uses as main blocks q varying-rate Reed-Solomon encoders and achieves a space complexity of O(q^2) in terms of finite field multipliers and memory elements. 
0704.00591	Quantum criticality and disorder in the antiferromagnetic critical point  of NiS$_{2}$ pyrite	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:N. Takeshita, S. Takashima, C. Terakura, H. Nishikubo, S. Miyasaka, M. Nohara, Y. Tokura, H. Takagi	 Abstract: A quantum critical point (QCP) between the antiferromagnetic and the paramagnetic phases was realized by applying a hydrostatic pressure of ~ 7 GPa on single crystals of NiS_{2} pyrite with a low residual resistivity, rho_{0}, of 0.5 mu-Omega-cm. We found that the critical behavior of the resistivity, rho, in this clean system contrasts sharply with those observed in its disordered analogue, NiS_{2-x}Se_{x} solid-solution, demonstrating the unexpectedly drastic effect of disorder on the quantum criticality. Over a whole paramagnetic region investigated up to P = 9 GPa, a crossover temperature, defined as the onset of T^{2} dependence of rho, an indication of Fermi liquid, was suppressed to a substantially low temperature T sim 2 K and, instead, a non Fermi liquid behavior of rho, T^{3/2}-dependence, robustly showed up. 
0704.00592	Spin coherence of holes in GaAs/AlGaAs quantum wells	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:M. Syperek, D. R. Yakovlev, A. Greilich, J. Misiewicz, M. Bayer, D. Reuter, A. D. Wieck	 Abstract: The carrier spin coherence in a p-doped GaAs/(Al,Ga)As quantum well with a diluted hole gas has been studied by picosecond pump-probe Kerr rotation with an in-plane magnetic field. For resonant optical excitation of the positively charged exciton the spin precession shows two types of oscillations. Fast oscillating electron spin beats decay with the radiative lifetime of the charged exciton of 50 ps. Long lived spin coherence of the holes with dephasing times up to 650 ps. The spin dephasing time as well as the in-plane hole g factor show strong temperature dependence, underlining the importance of hole localization at cryogenic temperatures. 
0704.00593	Local-field effects in radiatively broadened magneto-dielectric media:  negative refraction and absorption reduction	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Jürgen Kästel, Michael Fleischhauer, Gediminas Juzeliūnas	 Abstract: We give a microscopic derivation of the Clausius-Mossotti relations for a homogeneous and isotropic magneto-dielectric medium consisting of radiatively broadened atomic oscillators. To this end the diagram series of electromagnetic propagators is calculated exactly for an infinite bi-cubic lattice of dielectric and magnetic dipoles for a lattice constant small compared to the resonance wavelength $\lambda$. Modifications of transition frequencies and linewidth of the elementary oscillators are taken into account in a selfconsistent way by a proper incorporation of the singular self-interaction terms. We show that in radiatively broadened media sufficiently close to the free-space resonance the real part of the index of refraction approaches the value -2 in the limit of $\rho \lambda^3 \gg 1$, where $\rho$ is the number density of scatterers. Since at the same time the imaginary part vanishes as $1/\rho$ local field effects can have important consequences for realizing low-loss negative index materials. 
0704.00594	Search for a fourth generation b'-quark at LEP-II at sqrt{s}=196-209 GeV	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:The DELPHI Collaboration, J. Abdallah, et al	 Abstract: A search for the pair production of fourth generation b'-quarks was performed using data taken by the DELPHI detector at LEP-II. The analysed data were collected at centre-of-mass energies ranging from 196 to 209 GeV, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 420 pb^{-1}. No evidence for a signal was found. Upper limits on BR(b' -> bZ) and BR(b' -> cW) were obtained for b' masses ranging from 96 to 103 GeV/c^2. These limits, together with the theoretical branching ratios predicted by a sequential four generations model, were used to constrain the value of R_{CKM}=|V_{cb'}/V_{tb'}V_{tb}|, where V_{cb'}, V_{tb'} and V_{tb} are elements of the extended CKM matrix. 
0704.00595	About curvature, conformal metrics and warped products	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Fernando Dobarro, Bulent Unal	 Abstract: We consider the curvature of a family of warped products of two pseduo-Riemannian manifolds $(B,g_B)$ and $(F,g_F)$ furnished with metrics of the form $c^{2}g_B \oplus w^2 g_F$ and, in particular, of the type $w^{2 \mu}g_B \oplus w^2 g_F$, where $c, w \colon B \to (0,\infty)$ are smooth functions and $\mu$ is a real parameter. We obtain suitable expressions for the Ricci tensor and scalar curvature of such products that allow us to establish results about the existence of Einstein or constant scalar curvature structures in these categories. If $(B,g_B)$ is Riemannian, the latter question involves nonlinear elliptic partial differential equations with concave-convex nonlinearities and singular partial differential equations of the Lichnerowicz-York type among others. 
0704.00596	The local structure of conformally symmetric manifolds	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Andrzej Derdzinski (Ohio State University), Witold Roter (Wroclaw University of Technology)	 Abstract: This is a final step in a local classification of pseudo-Riemannian manifolds with parallel Weyl tensor that are not conformally flat or locally symmetric. 
0704.00597	Investigation of Colour Reconnection in WW Events with the DELPHI  detector at LEP-2	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:The DELPHI Collaboration, J. Abdallah, et al	 Abstract: In the reaction e+e- -> WW -> (q_1 qbar_2)(q_3 qbar_4) the usual hadronization models treat the colour singlets q_1 qbar_2 and q_3 qbar_4 coming from two W bosons independently. However, since the final state partons may coexist in space and time, cross-talk between the two evolving hadronic systems may be possible during fragmentation through soft gluon exchange. This effect is known as Colour Reconnection. In this article the results of the investigation of Colour Reconnection effects in fully hadronic decays of W pairs in DELPHI at LEP are presented. Two complementary analyses were performed, studying the particle flow between jets and W mass estimators, with negligible correlation between them, and the results were combined and compared to models. In the framework of the SK-I model, the value for its kappa parameter most compatible with the data was found to be: kappa_{SK-I} = 2.2^{+2.5}_{-1.3} corresponding to the probability of reconnection P_{reco} to be in the range 0.31 < P_{reco} < 0.68 at 68% confidence level with its best value at 0.52. 
0704.00598	Evolutionary Neural Gas (ENG): A Model of Self Organizing Network from  Input Categorization	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Ignazio Licata, Luigi Lella	 Abstract: Despite their claimed biological plausibility, most self organizing networks have strict topological constraints and consequently they cannot take into account a wide range of external stimuli. Furthermore their evolution is conditioned by deterministic laws which often are not correlated with the structural parameters and the global status of the network, as it should happen in a real biological system. In nature the environmental inputs are noise affected and fuzzy. Which thing sets the problem to investigate the possibility of emergent behaviour in a not strictly constrained net and subjected to different inputs. It is here presented a new model of Evolutionary Neural Gas (ENG) with any topological constraints, trained by probabilistic laws depending on the local distortion errors and the network dimension. The network is considered as a population of nodes that coexist in an ecosystem sharing local and global resources. Those particular features allow the network to quickly adapt to the environment, according to its dimensions. The ENG model analysis shows that the net evolves as a scale-free graph, and justifies in a deeply physical sense- the term gas here used. 
0704.00599	X-ray Dichroism and the Pseudogap Phase of Cuprates	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:S. Di Matteo, M. R. Norman	 Abstract: A recent polarized x-ray absorption experiment on the high temperature cuprate superconductor Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8 indicates the presence of broken parity symmetry below the temperature, T*, where a pseudogap appears in photoemission. We critically analyze the x-ray data, and conclude that a parity-breaking signal of the kind suggested is unlikely based on the crystal structures reported in the literature. Possible other origins of the observed dichroism signal are discussed. We propose x-ray scattering experiments that can be done in order to determine whether such alternative interpretations are valid or not. 
0704.00600	Solvability of linear equations within weak mixing sets	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Alexander Fish	 Abstract: We introduce a new class of "random" subsets of natural numbers, WM sets. This class contains normal sets (sets whose characteristic function is a normal binary sequence). We establish necessary and sufficient conditions for solvability of systems of linear equations within every WM set and within every normal set. We also show that partition-regular system of linear equations with integer coefficients is solvable in any WM set. 
0704.00601	D-\bar D mixing and rare D decays in the Littlest Higgs model with  non-unitarity matrix	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Chuan-Hung Chen, Chao-Qiang Geng, Tzu-Chiang Yuan	 Abstract: We study the $D-\bar D$ mixing and rare D decays in the Littlest Higgs model. As the new weak singlet quark with the electric charge of 2/3 is introduced to cancel the quadratic divergence induced by the top-quark, the standard unitary $3\times 3$ Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa matrix is extended to a non-unitary $4\times 3$ matrix in the quark charged currents and Z-mediated flavor changing neutral currents are generated at tree level. In this model, we show that the $D-\bar D$ mixing parameter can be as large as the current experimental value and the decay branching ratio (BR) of $D\to X_u \ga$ is small but its direct CP asymmetry could be $O(10%)$. In addition, we find that the BRs of $D\to X_u \ell^{+} \ell^{-}$, $D\to X_u\nu \bar \nu$ and $D\to \mu^{+} \mu^{-}$ could be enhanced to be $O(10^{-9})$, $O(10^{-8})$ and $O(10^{-9})$, respectively. 
0704.00602	Alternative Large Nc Schemes and Chiral Dynamics	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Francesco Sannino (CERN and University of Southern Denmark), Joseph Schechter (Syracuse University)	 Abstract: We compare the dependences on the number of colors of the leading pion pion scattering amplitudes using the single index quark field and two index quark fields. These are seen to have different relationships to the scattering amplitudes suggested by chiral dynamics which can explain the long puzzling pion pion s wave scattering up to about 1 GeV. This may be interesting for getting a better understanding of the large Nc approach as well as for application to recently proposed technicolor models. 
0704.00603	The height dependence of temperature - velocity correlation in the solar  photosphere	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. Koza, A. Kucera, J. Rybák, H. Wöhl	 Abstract: We derive correlation coefficients between temperature and line-of-sight velocity as a function of optical depth throughout the solar photosphere for the non-magnetic photosphere and a small area of enhanced magnetic activity. The maximum anticorrelation of about -0.6 between temperature and line-of-sight velocity in the non-magnetic photosphere occurs at log tau5 = -0.4. The magnetic field is another decorrelating factor along with 5-min oscillations and seeing. 
0704.00604	Magnetism in the high-Tc analogue Cs2AgF4 studied with muon-spin  relaxation	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:T. Lancaster, S.J. Blundell, P.J. Baker, W. Hayes, S.R. Giblin, S.E. McLain, F.L. Pratt, Z. Salman, E.A. Jacobs, J.F.C. Turner, T. Barnes	 Abstract: We present the results of a muon-spin relaxation study of the high-Tc analogue material Cs2AgF4. We find unambiguous evidence for magnetic order, intrinsic to the material, below T_C=13.95(3) K. The ratio of inter- to intraplane coupling is estimated to be |J'/J|=1.9 x 10^-2, while fits of the temperature dependence of the order parameter reveal a critical exponent beta=0.292(3), implying an intermediate character between pure two- and three- dimensional magnetism in the critical regime. Above T_C we observe a signal characteristic of dipolar interactions due to linear F-mu-F bonds, allowing the muon stopping sites in this compound to be characterized. 
0704.00605	Reconciling the X(3872) with the near-threshold enhancement in the  D^0\bar{D}^{*0} final state	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:C.Hanhart (FZ-Juelich), Yu.S.Kalashnikova, A.E.Kudryavtsev, A.V.Nefediev (ITEP, Moscow)	 Abstract: We investigate the enhancement in the D^0\bar{D}^0\pi^0 final state with the mass M=3875.2\pm 0.7^{+0.3}_{-1.6}\pm 0.8 MeV found recently by the Belle Collaboration in the B\to K D^0\bar{D}^0\pi^0 decay and test the possibility that this is yet another manifestation of the well-established resonance X(3872). We perform a combined Flatte analysis of the data for the D^0\bar{D}^0\pi^0 mode, and for the \pi^+\pi^- J/\psi mode of the X(3872). Only if the X(3872) is a virtual state in the D^0\bar{D}^{*0} channel, the data on the new enhancement comply with those on the X(3872). In our fits, the mass distribution in the D^0\bar{D}^{*0} mode exhibits a peak at 2-3 MeV above the D^0\bar{D}^{*0} threshold, with a distinctive non-Breit-Wigner shape. 
0704.00606	Three-dimensional effects in "atom diodes": atom-optical devices for  one-way motion	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:A. Ruschhaupt, J. G. Muga	 Abstract: The ``atom diode'' is a laser device that lets the ground state atom pass in one direction but not in the opposite direction. We examine three-dimensional effects of that device for arbitrary atomic incidence angles on flat laser sheets and set breakdown limiting angles and velocities. It is found that a correct diodic behavior independent of the incident angle can be obtained with blue detuned lasers. 
0704.00607	Plasmon Amplification through Stimulated Emission at Terahertz  Frequencies in Graphene	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Farhan Rana, Faisal R. Ahmad	 Abstract: We show that plasmons in two-dimensional graphene can have net gain at terahertz frequencies. The coupling of the plasmons to interband electron-hole transitions in population inverted graphene layers can lead to plasmon amplification through the process of stimulated emission. We calculate plasmon gain for different electron-hole densities and temperatures and show that the gain values can exceed $10^{4}$ cm$^{-1}$ in the 1-10 terahertz frequency range, for electron-hole densities in the $10^{9}$-$10^{11}$ cm$^{-2}$ range, even when plasmon energy loss due to intraband scattering is considered. Plasmons are found to exhibit net gain for intraband scattering times shorter than 100 fs. Such high gain values could allow extremely compact terahertz amplifiers and oscillators that have dimensions in the 1-10 $\mu$m range. 
0704.00608	On the homology of two-dimensional elimination	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:J. Hong, A. Simis, W. V. Vasconcelos	 Abstract: We study birational maps with empty base locus defined by almost complete intersection ideals. Birationality is shown to be expressed by the equality of two Chern numbers. We provide a relatively effective method of their calculation in terms of certain Hilbert coefficients. In dimension two the structure of the irreducible ideals leads naturally to the calculation of Sylvester determinants via a computer-assisted method. For degree at most 5 we produce the full set of defining equations of the base ideal. The results answer affirmatively some questions raised by D. Cox. 
0704.00609	The effectiveness of quantum operations for eavesdropping on sealed  messages	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Paul A Lopata, Thomas B Bahder	 Abstract: A quantum protocol is described which enables a user to send sealed messages and that allows for the detection of active eavesdroppers. We examine a class of eavesdropping strategies, those that make use of quantum operations, and we determine the information gain versus disturbance caused by these strategies. We demonstrate this tradeoff with an example and we compare this protocol to quantum key distribution, quantum direct communication, and quantum seal protocols. 
0704.00610	Shocks in nonlocal media	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Neda Ghofraniha, Claudio Conti, Giancarlo Ruocco, Stefano Trillo	 Abstract: We investigate the formation of collisionless shocks along the spatial profile of a gaussian laser beam propagating in nonlocal nonlinear media. For defocusing nonlinearity the shock survives the smoothing effect of the nonlocal response, though its dynamics is qualitatively affected by the latter, whereas for focusing nonlinearity it dominates over filamentation. The patterns observed in a thermal defocusing medium are interpreted in the framework of our theory. 
0704.00611	Modeling the field of laser welding melt pool by RBFNN	Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)	Authors:A. Borstnik Bracic, E. Govekar, I. Grabec	 Abstract: Efficient control of a laser welding process requires the reliable prediction of process behavior. A statistical method of field modeling, based on normalized RBFNN, can be successfully used to predict the spatiotemporal dynamics of surface optical activity in the laser welding process. In this article we demonstrate how to optimize RBFNN to maximize prediction quality. Special attention is paid to the structure of sample vectors, which represent the bridge between the field distributions in the past and future. 
0704.00612	Solving The High Energy Evolution Equation Including Running Coupling  Corrections	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Javier L. Albacete, Yuri V. Kovchegov	 Abstract: We study the solution of the nonlinear BK evolution equation with the recently calculated running coupling corrections [hep-ph/0609105, hep-ph/0609090]. Performing a numerical solution we confirm the earlier result of [hep-ph/0408216] that the high energy evolution with the running coupling leads to a universal scaling behavior for the dipole scattering amplitude. The running coupling corrections calculated recently significantly change the shape of the scaling function as compared to the fixed coupling case leading to a considerable increase in the anomalous dimension and to a slow-down of the evolution with rapidity. The difference between the two recent calculations is due to an extra contribution to the evolution kernel, referred to as the subtraction term, which arises when running coupling corrections are included. These subtraction terms were neglected in both recent calculations. We evaluate numerically the subtraction terms for both calculations, and demonstrate that when the subtraction terms are added back to the evolution kernels obtained in the two works the resulting dipole amplitudes agree with each other! We then use the complete running coupling kernel including the subtraction term to find the numerical solution of the resulting full non-linear evolution equation with the running coupling corrections. Again the scaling regime is recovered at very large rapidity. 
0704.00613	Anomalous c-axis transport in layered metals	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:D. B. Gutman, D. L. Maslov	 Abstract: Transport in metals with strongly anisotropic single-particle spectrum is studied. Coherent band transport in all directions, described by the standard Boltzmann equation, is shown to withstand both elastic and inelastic scattering as long as $E_F\tau\gg 1$. A model of phonon-assisted tunneling via resonant states located in between the layers is suggested to explain a non-monotonic temperature dependence of the c-axis resistivity observed in experiments. 
0704.00614	Proper holomorphic mappings of the spectral unit ball	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Wlodzimierz Zwonek	 Abstract: We prove an Alexander type theorem for the spectral unit ball $\Omega_n$ showing that there are no non-trivial proper holomorphic mappings in $\Omega_n$, $n\geq 2$. 
0704.00615	Parsimony via concensus	Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)	Authors:Trevor Bruen, David Bryant	 Abstract: The parsimony score of a character on a tree equals the number of state changes required to fit that character onto the tree. We show that for unordered, reversible characters this score equals the number of tree rearrangements required to fit the tree onto the character. We discuss implications of this connection for the debate over the use of consensus trees or total evidence, and show how it provides a link between incongruence of characters and recombination. 
0704.00616	Millimeter imaging of HD 163296: probing the disk structure and  kinematics	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Isella (INAF-Osservatorio Astrofisico di Arcetri), L. Testi (INAF-OAA), A. Natta (INAF-OAA), R. Neri (IRAM), D. Wilner (CFA), C. Qi (CFA)	 Abstract: We present new multi-wavelength millimeter interferometric observations of the Herbig Ae star HD 163296 obtained with the IRAM/PBI, SMA and VLA arrays both in continuum and in the 12CO, 13CO and C18O emission lines. Gas and dust properties have been obtained comparing the observations with self-consistent disk models for the dust and CO emission. The circumstellar disk is resolved both in the continuum and in CO. We find strong evidence that the circumstellar material is in Keplerian rotation around a central star of 2.6 Msun. The disk inclination with respect to the line of sight is 46+-4 deg with a position angle of 128+-4 deg. The slope of the dust opacity measured between 0.87 and 7 mm (beta=1) confirms the presence of mm/cm-size grains in the disk midplane. The dust continuum emission is asymmetric and confined inside a radius of 200 AU while the CO emission extends up to 540 AU. The comparison between dust and CO temperature indicates that CO is present only in the disk interior. Finally, we obtain an increasing depletion of CO isotopomers from 12CO to 13CO and C18O. We argue that these results support the idea that the disk of HD 163296 is strongly evolved. In particular, we suggest that there is a strong depletion of dust relative to gas outside 200 AU; this may be due to the inward migration of large bodies that form in the outer disk or to clearing of a large gap in the dust distribution by a low mass companion. 
0704.00617	Spectropolarimetric observations of the Ca II 8498 A and 8542 A lines in  the quiet Sun	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Pietarila, H. Socas-Navarro, T. Bogdan	 Abstract: The Ca II infrared triplet is one of the few magnetically sensitive chromospheric lines available for ground-based observations. We present spectropolarimetric observations of the 8498 A and 8542 A lines in a quiet Sun region near a decaying active region and compare the results with a simulation of the lines in a high plasma-beta regime. Cluster analysis of Stokes V profile pairs shows that the two lines, despite arguably being formed fairly close, often do not have similar shapes. In the network, the local magnetic topology is more important in determining the shapes of the Stokes V profiles than the phase of the wave, contrary to what our simulations show. We also find that Stokes V asymmetries are very common in the network, and the histograms of the observed amplitude and area asymmetries differ significantly from the simulation. Both the network and internetwork show oscillatory behavior in the Ca II lines. It is stronger in the network, where shocking waves, similar to those in the high-beta simulation, are seen and large self-reversals in the intensity profiles are common. 
0704.00618	Number of moduli of irreducible families of plane curves with nodes and  cusps	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Concettina Galati	 Abstract: Consider the family S of irreducible plane curves of degree n with d nodes and k cusps as singularities. Let W be an irreducible component of S. We consider the natural rational map from W to the moduli space of curves of genus g=(n-1)(n-2)/2-d-k. We define the "number of moduli of W" as the dimension of the image of W with respect to this map. If W has the expected dimension equal to 3n+g-1-k, then the number of moduli of W is at most equal to the min(3g-3, 3g-3+\rho-k), dove \rho is the Brill-Neother number of the linear series of degree n and dimension 2 on a smooth curve of genus g. We say that W has the expected number of moduli if the equality holds. In this paper we construct examples of families of irreducible plane curves with nodes and cusps as singularities having expected number of moduli and with non-positive Brill-Noether number. 
0704.00619	Search for Heavy Neutral MSSM Higgs Bosons with CMS: Reach and  Higgs-Mass Precision	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:S. Gennai, S. Heinemeyer, A. Kalinowski, R. Kinnunen, S. Lethi, A. Nikitenko, G. Weiglein	 Abstract: The search for MSSM Higgs bosons will be an important goal at the LHC. We analyze the search reach of the CMS experiment for the heavy neutral MSSM Higgs bosons with an integrated luminosity of 30 or 60 fb^-1. This is done by combining the latest results for the CMS experimental sensitivities based on full simulation studies with state-of-the-art theoretical predictions of MSSM Higgs-boson properties. The results are interpreted in MSSM benchmark scenarios in terms of the parameters tan_beta and the Higgs-boson mass scale, M_A. We study the dependence of the 5 sigma discovery contours in the M_A-tan_beta plane on variations of the other supersymmetric parameters. The largest effects arise from a change in the higgsino mass parameter mu, which enters both via higher-order radiative corrections and via the kinematics of Higgs decays into supersymmetric particles. While the variation of $\mu$ can shift the prospective discovery reach (and correspondingly the ``LHC wedge'' region) by about Delta tan_beta = 10, we find that the discovery reach is rather stable with respect to the impact of other supersymmetric parameters. Within the discovery region we analyze the accuracy with which the masses of the heavy neutral Higgs bosons can be determined. We find that an accuracy of 1-4% should be achievable, which could make it possible in favourable regions of the MSSM parameter space to experimentally resolve the signals of the two heavy MSSM Higgs bosons at the LHC. 
0704.00620	White dwarf masses derived from planetary nebulae modelling	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K. Gesicki, A.A. Zijlstra	 Abstract: We compare the mass distribution of central stars of planetary nebulae (CSPN) with those of their progeny, white dwarfs (WD). We use a dynamical method to measure masses with an uncertainty of 0.02 M$_\odot$. The CSPN mass distribution is sharply peaked at $0.61 \rm M_\odot$. The WD distribution peaks at lower masses ($0.58 \rm M_\odot$) and shows a much broader range of masses. Some of the difference can be explained if the early post-AGB evolution is faster than predicted by the Bl\"ocker tracks. Between 30 and 50 per cent of WD may avoid the PN phase because of too low mass. However, the discrepancy cannot be fully resolved and WD mass distributions may have been broadened by observational or model uncertainties. 
0704.00621	Uniqueness theorems for Cauchy integrals	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Mark Melnikov, Alexei Poltoratski, Alexander Volberg	 Abstract: If $\mu$ is a finite complex measure in the complex plane $\C$ we denote by $C^\mu$ its Cauchy integral defined in the sense of principal value. The measure $\mu$ is called reflectionless if it is continuous (has no atoms) and $C^\mu=0$ at $\mu$-almost every point. We show that if $\mu$ is reflectionless and its Cauchy maximal function $C^\mu_*$ is summable with respect to $|\mu|$ then $\mu$ is trivial. An example of a reflectionless measure whose maximal function belongs to the "weak" $L^1$ is also constructed, proving that the above result is sharp in its scale. We also give a partial geometric description of the set of reflectionless measures on the line and discuss connections of our results with the notion of sets of finite perimeter in the sense of De Giorgi. 
0704.00622	On the number of moduli of plane sextics with six cusps	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Concettina Galati	 Abstract: Let S be the variety of irreducible sextics with six cusps as singularities. Let W be one of irreducible components of W. Denoting by M_4 the space of moduli of smooth curves of genus 4, the moduli map of W is the rational map from W to M_4 sending the general point of W, corresponding to a plane curve D, to the point of M_4 parametrizing the normalization curve of D. The number of moduli of W is, by definition the dimension of the image of W with respect to the moduli map. We know that this number is at most equal to seven. In this paper we prove that both irreducible components of S have number of moduli exactly equal to seven. 
0704.00623	Algorithm for anisotropic diffusion in hydrogen-bonded networks	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Edoardo Milotti	 Abstract: In this paper I describe a specialized algorithm for anisotropic diffusion determined by a field of transition rates. The algorithm can be used to describe some interesting forms of diffusion that occur in the study of proton motion in a network of hydrogen bonds. The algorithm produces data that require a nonstandard method of spectral analysis which is also developed here. Finally, I apply the algorithm to a simple specific example. 
0704.00624	Temporal Evolution of Step-Edge Fluctuations Under Electromigration  Conditions	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:P. J. Rous, T. W. Bole	 Abstract: The temporal evolution of step-edge fluctuations under electromigration conditions is analysed using a continuum Langevin model. If the electromigration driving force acts in the step up/down direction, and step-edge diffusion is the dominant mass-transport mechanism, we find that significant deviations from the usual $t^{1/4}$ scaling of the terrace-width correlation function occurs for a critical time $\tau$ which is dependent upon the three energy scales in the problem: $k_{B}T$, the step stiffness, $\gamma$, and the bias associated with adatom hopping under the influence of an electromigration force, $\pm \Delta U$. For ($t < \tau$), the correlation function evolves as a superposition of $t^{1/4}$ and $t^{3/4}$ power laws. For $t \ge \tau$ a closed form expression can be derived. This behavior is confirmed by a Monte-Carlo simulation using a discrete model of the step dynamics. It is proposed that the magnitude of the electromigration force acting upon an atom at a step-edge can by estimated by a careful analysis of the statistical properties of step-edge fluctuations on the appropriate time-scale. 
0704.00625	Renormgroup origin and analysis of Split Higgsino scenario	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:V.A.Beylin, V.I.Kuksa, G.M.Vereshkov, R.S.Pasechnik	 Abstract: We present a renormalization group motivation of scale hierarchies in SUSY SU(5) model. The Split Higgsino scanrio with a high scale of the SUSY breaking is considered in detail. Its manifestations in experiments are discussed. 
0704.00626	Probing dark energy with steerable wavelets through correlation of WMAP  and NVSS local morphological measures	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. D. McEwen, Y. Wiaux, M. P. Hobson, P. Vandergheynst, A. N. Lasenby	 Abstract: Using local morphological measures on the sphere defined through a steerable wavelet analysis, we examine the three-year WMAP and the NVSS data for correlation induced by the integrated Sachs-Wolfe (ISW) effect. The steerable wavelet constructed from the second derivative of a Gaussian allows one to define three local morphological measures, namely the signed-intensity, orientation and elongation of local features. Detections of correlation between the WMAP and NVSS data are made with each of these morphological measures. The most significant detection is obtained in the correlation of the signed-intensity of local features at a significance of 99.9%. By inspecting signed-intensity sky maps, it is possible for the first time to see the correlation between the WMAP and NVSS data by eye. Foreground contamination and instrumental systematics in the WMAP data are ruled out as the source of all significant detections of correlation. Our results provide new insight on the ISW effect by probing the morphological nature of the correlation induced between the cosmic microwave background and large scale structure of the Universe. Given the current constraints on the flatness of the Universe, our detection of the ISW effect again provides direct and independent evidence for dark energy. Moreover, this new morphological analysis may be used in future to help us to better understand the nature of dark energy. 
0704.00627	Electromagnetic structure and weak decay of meson K in a light-front  QCD-inspired	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Fabiano P. Pereira (Instituto de Fisica, Universidade Federal Fluminense, Niteroi, RJ, Brazil), J. P. B. C. de Melo (Universidade Cruzeiro do Sul, CETEC, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil), T. Frederico (Instituto Tecnologico de Aeronautica, Sao Jose dos Campos, SP, Brazil), Lauro Tomio (Instituto de Fisica Teorica, UNESP, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil)	 Abstract: The kaon electromagnetic (e.m.) form factor is reviewed considering a light-front constituent quark model. In this approach, it is discussed the relevance of the quark-antiquark pair terms for the full covariance of the e.m. current. It is also verified, by considering a QCD dynamical model, that a good agreement with experimental data can be obtained for the kaon weak decay constant once a probability of about 80% of the valence component is taken into account. 
0704.00628	Black hole puncture initial data with realistic gravitational wave  content	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Bernard J Kelly, Wolfgang Tichy, Manuela Campanelli, Bernard F Whiting	 Abstract: We present improved post-Newtonian-inspired initial data for non-spinning black-hole binaries, suitable for numerical evolution with punctures. We revisit the work of Tichy et al. [W. Tichy, B. Bruegmann, M. Campanelli, and P. Diener, Phys. Rev. D 67, 064008 (2003)], explicitly calculating the remaining integral terms. These terms improve accuracy in the far zone and, for the first time, include realistic gravitational waves in the initial data. We investigate the behavior of these data both at the center of mass and in the far zone, demonstrating agreement of the transverse-traceless parts of the new metric with quadrupole-approximation waveforms. These data can be used for numerical evolutions, enabling a direct connection between the merger waveforms and the post-Newtonian inspiral waveforms. 
0704.00629	Measurement of the Decay Constant $f_D{_S^+}$ using $D_S^+ --> ell^+ nu	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:CLEO Collaboration: M. Artuso, et al	 Abstract: We measure the decay constant fDs using the Ds -> l+ nu channel, where the l+ designates either a mu+ or a tau+, when the tau+ -> pi+ nu. Using both measurements we find fDs = 274 +-13 +- 7 MeV. Combining with our previous determination of fD+, we compute the ratio fDs/fD+ = 1.23 +- 0.11 +- 0.04. We compare with theoretical estimates. 
0704.00630	The $e^+ e^-\to K^+ K^- π^+π^-$, $K^+ K^- π^0π^0$ and $K^+ K^-  K^+ K^-$ Cross Sections Measured with Initial-State Radiation	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:The BABAR Collaboration: B. Aubert, et al	 Abstract: We study the processes $e^+ e^-\to K^+ K^- \pi^+\pi^-\gamma$, $K^+K^-\pi^0\pi^0\gamma$ and $K^+ K^- K^+ K^-\gamma$, where the photon is radiated from the initial state. About 34600, 4400 and 2300 fully reconstructed events, respectively, are selected from 232 \invfb of \babar data. The invariant mass of the hadronic final state defines the effective \epem center-of-mass energy, so that the $K^+ K^- \pi^+\pi^-\gamma$ data can be compared with direct measurements of the $e^+ e^-\to K^+K^- \pipi$ reaction; no direct measurements exist for the $e^+ e^-\to K^+ K^- \pi^0\pi^0$ or $\epem\to K^+ K^- K^+ K^-$ reactions. Studying the structure of these events, we find contributions from a number of intermediate states, and we extract their cross sections where possible. In particular, we isolate the contribution from $e^+ e^-\to\phi(1020) f_{0}(980)$ and study its structure near threshold. In the charmonium region, we observe the $J/\psi$ in all three final states and several intermediate states, as well as the $\psi(2S)$ in some modes, and measure the corresponding branching fractions. We see no signal for the Y(4260) and obtain an upper limit of $\BR_{Y(4260)\to\phi\pi^+\pi^-}\cdot\Gamma^{Y}_{ee}<0.4 \ev$ at 90% C.L. 
0704.00631	Orthogonality criterion for banishing hydrino states from standard  quantum mechanics	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Antonio S. de Castro	 Abstract: Orthogonality criterion is used to shown in a very simple and general way that anomalous bound-state solutions for the Coulomb potential (hydrino states) do not exist as bona fide solutions of the Schr\"{o}dinger, Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations. 
0704.00632	Detecting and Characterizing Planetary Systems with Transit Timing	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jason H. Steffen, B. Scott Gaudi, Eric B. Ford, Eric Agol, Mathew J. Holman	 Abstract: In the coming decades, research in extrasolar planets aims to advance two goals: 1) detecting and characterizing low-mass planets increasingly similar to the Earth, and 2) improving our understanding of planet formation. We present a new planet detection method that is capable of making large advances towards both of these objectives and describe a modest network of telescopes that is able to make the requisite observations. In a system where a known planet transits its host star, a second planet in that system will cause the time between transits to vary. These transit timing variations can be used to infer the orbital elements and mass of the perturbing planet even if it has a mass that is smaller than the mass of the Earth. This detection technique complements other techniques because it is most sensitive in mean-motion resonances where, due to degeneracies, other techniques have reduced sensitivity. Small ground-based observatories have already exceeded the photometric precision necessary to detect sub-Earth mass planets. However, TTV planet searches are currently limited by the relatively small number of high-precision transit data and insufficient observing time on existing telescopes. These issues will be compounded as the number of known transiting planets suitable for TTV study will increase substantially in the near future. A relatively modest investment in a ground-based network of small ($\sim 0.5 {\rm m}$ telescopes could provide the needed coverage and so dramatically increase the effectiveness of transit timing observations. 
0704.00633	d-wave superconductivity from electron-phonon interactions	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:J.P.Hague	 Abstract: I examine electron-phonon mediated superconductivity in the intermediate coupling and phonon frequency regime of the quasi-2D Holstein model. I use an extended Migdal-Eliashberg theory which includes vertex corrections and spatial fluctuations. I find a d-wave superconducting state that is unique close to half-filling. The order parameter undergoes a transition to s-wave superconductivity on increasing filling. I explain how the inclusion of both vertex corrections and spatial fluctuations is essential for the prediction of a d-wave order parameter. I then discuss the effects of a large Coulomb pseudopotential on the superconductivity (such as is found in contemporary superconducting materials like the cuprates), which results in the destruction of the s-wave states, while leaving the d-wave states unmodified. 
0704.00634	A Finite Element framework for computation of protein normal modes and  mechanical response	Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)	Authors:Mark Bathe	 Abstract: A coarse-grained computational procedure based on the Finite Element Method is proposed to calculate the normal modes and mechanical response of proteins and their supramolecular assemblies. Motivated by the elastic network model, proteins are modeled as homogeneous isotropic elastic solids with volume defined by their solvent-excluded surface. The discretized Finite Element representation is obtained using a surface simplification algorithm that facilitates the generation of models of arbitrary prescribed spatial resolution. The procedure is applied to compute the normal modes of a mutant of T4 phage lysozyme and of filamentous actin, as well as the critical Euler buckling load of the latter when subject to axial compression. Results compare favorably with all-atom normal mode analysis, the Rotation Translation Blocks procedure, and experiment. The proposed methodology establishes a computational framework for the calculation of protein mechanical response that facilitates the incorporation of specific atomic-level interactions into the model, including aqueous-electrolyte-mediated electrostatic effects. The procedure is equally applicable to proteins with known atomic coordinates as it is to electron density maps of proteins, protein complexes, and supramolecular assemblies of unknown atomic structure. 
0704.00635	Reply to 'Comment on 'Heavy element production in inhomogeneous big bang  nucleosynthesis''	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Shunji Matsuura, Shin-ichirou Fujimoto, Masa-aki Hashimoto, Katsuhiko Sato	 Abstract: This is a reply report to astro-ph/0604264. We studied heavy element production in high baryon density region in early universe astro-ph/0507439. However it is claimed in astro-ph/0604264 that small scale but high baryon density region contradicts observations for the light element abundance or in order not to contradict to observations high density region must be so small that it cannot affect the present heavy element abundance. In this paper we study big bang nucleosynthesis in high baryon density region and show that in certain parameter spaces it is possible to produce enough amount of heavy element without contradiction to CMB and light element observations. 
0704.00636	Sum-over-states vs quasiparticle pictures of coherent correlation  spectroscopy of excitons in semiconductors; femtosecond analogues of  multidimensional NMR	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Shaul Mukamel, Rafal Oszwaldowski, Darius Abramavicius	 Abstract: Two-dimensional correlation spectroscopy (2DCS) based on the nonlinear optical response of excitons to sequences of ultrafast pulses, has the potential to provide some unique insights into carrier dynamics in semiconductors. The most prominent feature of 2DCS, cross peaks, can best be understood using a sum-over-states picture involving the many-body eigenstates. However, the optical response of semiconductors is usually calculated by solving truncated equations of motion for dynamical variables, which result in a quasiparticle picture. In this work we derive Green's function expressions for the four wave mixing signals generated in various phase-matching directions and use them to establish the connection between the two pictures. The formal connection with Frenkel excitons (hard-core bosons) and vibrational excitons (soft-core bosons) is pointed out. 
0704.00637	Are constant loop widths an artifact of the background and the spatial  resolution?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M.C. Lopez Fuentes, P. Demoulin, J.A. Klimchuk	 Abstract: We study the effect of the coronal background in the determination of the diameter of EUV loops, and we analyze the suitability of the procedure followed in a previous paper (L\'opez Fuentes, Klimchuk & D\'emoulin 2006) for characterizing their expansion properties. For the analysis we create different synthetic loops and we place them on real backgrounds from data obtained with the Transition Region and Coronal Explorer (\textit{TRACE}). We apply to these loops the same procedure followed in our previous works, and we compare the results with real loop observations. We demonstrate that the procedure allows us to distinguish constant width loops from loops that expand appreciably with height, as predicted by simple force-free field models. This holds even for loops near the resolution limit. The procedure can easily determine when loops are below resolution limit and therefore not reliably measured. We find that small-scale variations in the measured loop width are likely due to imperfections in the background subtraction. The greatest errors occur in especially narrow loops and in places where the background is especially bright relative to the loop. We stress, however, that these effects do not impact the ability to measure large-scale variations. The result that observed loops do not expand systematically with height is robust. 
0704.00638	Polarizations of J/psi and psi(2S) Mesons Produced in ppbar Collisions  at 1.96 TeV	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:CDF Collaboration	 Abstract: We have measured the polarizations of $\jpsi$ and $\psiprime$ mesons as functions of their transverse momentum $\pt$ when they are produced promptly in the rapidity range $|y|<0.6$ with $\pt \geq 5 \pgev$. The analysis is performed using a data sample with an integrated luminosity of about $800 \ipb$ collected by the CDF II detector. For both vector mesons, we find that the polarizations become increasingly longitudinal as $\pt$ increases from 5 to $30 \pgev$. These results are compared to the predictions of nonrelativistic quantum chromodynamics and other contemporary models. The effective polarizations of $\jpsi$ and $\psiprime$ mesons from $B$-hadron decays are also reported. 
0704.00639	A measure of the non-Gaussian character of a quantum state	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Marco G. Genoni, Matteo G. A. Paris, Konrad Banaszek	 Abstract: We address the issue of quantifying the non-Gaussian character of a bosonic quantum state and introduce a non-Gaussianity measure based on the Hilbert-Schmidt distance between the state under examination and a reference Gaussian state. We analyze in details the properties of the proposed measure and exploit it to evaluate the non-Gaussianity of some relevant single- and multi-mode quantum states. The evolution of non-Gaussianity is also analyzed for quantum states undergoing the processes of Gaussification by loss and de-Gaussification by photon-subtraction. The suggested measure is easily computable for any state of a bosonic system and allows to define a corresponding measure for the non-Gaussian character of a quantum operation. 
0704.00640	Skew-Hadamard matrices of orders 188 and 388 exist	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Dragomir Z. Djokovic	 Abstract: We construct several difference families on cyclic groups of orders 47 and 97, and use them to construct skew-Hadamard matrices of orders 188 and 388. Such difference families and matrices are constructed here for the first time. The matrices are constructed by using the Goethals-Seidel array. 
0704.00641	Quantum engineering of photon states with entangled atomic ensembles	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:D. Porras, J.I. Cirac	 Abstract: We propose and analyze a new method to produce single and entangled photons which does not require cavities. It relies on the collective enhancement of light emission as a consequence of the presence of entanglement in atomic ensembles. Light emission is triggered by a laser pulse, and therefore our scheme is deterministic. Furthermore, it allows one to produce a variety of photonic entangled states by first preparing certain atomic states using simple sequences of quantum gates. We analyze the feasibility of our scheme, and particularize it to: ions in linear traps, atoms in optical lattices, and in cells at room temperature. 
0704.00642	Direct photons and dileptons via color dipoles	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:B. Z. Kopeliovich, A. H. Rezaeian, H. J. Pirner, Ivan Schmidt	 Abstract: Drell-Yan dilepton pair production and inclusive direct photon production can be described within a unified framework in the color dipole approach. The inclusion of non-perturbative primordial transverse momenta and DGLAP evolution is studied. We successfully describe data for dilepton spectra from 800-GeV pp collisions, inclusive direct photon spectra for pp collisions at RHIC energies $\sqrt{s}=200$ GeV, and for $p\bar{p}$ collisions at Tevatron energies $\sqrt{s}=1.8$ TeV, in a formalism that is free from any extra parameters. 
0704.00643	Mapping the Youngest Galaxies to Redshift One	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Yuko Kakazu, Lennox L. Cowie, Esther M. Hu (Univ. of Hawaii, Inst. for Astronomy)	 Abstract: We describe results of a narrow band search for ultra-strong emission line galaxies (USELs) with EW(H beta) > 30 A. 542 candidate galaxies are found in a half square degree survey using two ~100 Angstrom 8150 A and 9140 A filters with Subaru/SuprimeCam. Followup spectroscopy for randomly selected objects in the sample with KeckII/DEIMOS shows they consist of [OIII] 5007, [OII] 3727, and H alpha selected strong-emission line galaxies at intermediate redshifts (z < 1), and Ly alpha emitting galaxies at high-redshift (z >> 5). We determine the H beta luminosity functions and the star formation density of the USELs, which is 5-10% of the value found from ultraviolet continuum objects at z=0-1, suggesting they correspond to a major epoch in galaxy formation at these redshifts. Many USELs show the temperature-sensitive [OIII] 4363 auroral lines and about a dozen have oxygen abundances characteristic of eXtremely Metal Poor Galaxies (XMPGs). These XMPGs are the most distant known today. Our high yield rate of XMPGs suggests this is a powerful method for finding such populations. The lowest metallicity measured in our sample is 12+log(O/H) = 7.06 (6.78-7.44), close to the minimum metallicity found in local galaxies. The luminosities, metallicities and star formation rates of USELs are consistent with the strong emitters being start-up intermediate mass galaxies and suggest that galaxies are still forming in relatively chemically pristine sites at z < 1. 
0704.00644	On the HOMFLY and Tutte polynomials	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Iain Moffatt	 Abstract: A celebrated result of F. Jaeger states that the Tutte polynomial of a planar graph is determined by the HOMFLY polynomial of an associated link. Here we are interested in the converse of this result. We consider the question `to what extent does the Tutte polynomial determine the HOMFLY polynomial of any knot?' We show that the HOMFLY polynomial of a knot is determined by Tutte polynomials of plane graphs associated to the knot. 
0704.00645	Discovery of extreme asymmetry in the debris disk surrounding HD 15115	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Paul Kalas, Michael P. Fitzgerald, James R. Graham (University of California, Berkeley)	 Abstract: We report the first scattered light detection of a dusty debris disk surrounding the F2V star HD 15115 using the Hubble Space Telescope in the optical, and Keck adaptive optics in the near-infrared. The most remarkable property of the HD 15115 disk relative to other debris disks is its extreme length asymmetry. The east side of the disk is detected to ~315 AU radius, whereas the west side of the disk has radius >550 AU. We find a blue optical to near-infrared scattered light color relative to the star that indicates grain scattering properties similar to the AU Mic debris disk. The existence of a large debris disk surrounding HD 15115 adds further evidence for membership in the Beta Pic moving group, which was previously argued based on kinematics alone. Here we hypothesize that the extreme disk asymmetry is due to dynamical perturbations from HIP 12545, an M star 0.5 degrees (0.38 pc) east of HD 15115 that shares a common proper motion vector, heliocentric distance, galactic space velocity, and age. 
0704.00646	The Mathematical Universe	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Max Tegmark (MIT)	 Abstract: I explore physics implications of the External Reality Hypothesis (ERH) that there exists an external physical reality completely independent of us humans. I argue that with a sufficiently broad definition of mathematics, it implies the Mathematical Universe Hypothesis (MUH) that our physical world is an abstract mathematical structure. I discuss various implications of the ERH and MUH, ranging from standard physics topics like symmetries, irreducible representations, units, free parameters, randomness and initial conditions to broader issues like consciousness, parallel universes and Godel incompleteness. I hypothesize that only computable and decidable (in Godel's sense) structures exist, which alleviates the cosmological measure problem and help explain why our physical laws appear so simple. I also comment on the intimate relation between mathematical structures, computations, simulations and physical systems. 
0704.00647	Testing String Theory with CMB	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Renata Kallosh, Andrei Linde	 Abstract: Future detection/non-detection of tensor modes from inflation in CMB observations presents a unique way to test certain features of string theory. Current limit on the ratio of tensor to scalar perturbations, r=T/S, is r < 0.3, future detection may take place for r > 10^{-2}-10^{-3}. At present all known string theory inflation models predict tensor modes well below the level of detection. Therefore a possible experimental discovery of tensor modes may present a challenge to string cosmology. The strongest bound on r in string inflation follows from the observation that in most of the models based on the KKLT construction, the value of the Hubble constant H during inflation must be smaller than the gravitino mass. For the gravitino mass in the usual range, m_{3/2} < O(1) TeV, this leads to an extremely strong bound r < 10^{-24}. A discovery of tensor perturbations with r > 10^{-3} would imply that the gravitinos in this class of models are superheavy, m_{3/2} > 10^{13} GeV. This would have important implications for particle phenomenology based on string theory. 
0704.00648	Behavioral response to strong aversive stimuli: A neurodynamical model	Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)	Authors:Kaushik Majumdar	 Abstract: In this paper a theoretical model of functioning of a neural circuit during a behavioral response has been proposed. A neural circuit can be thought of as a directed multigraph whose each vertex is a neuron and each edge is a synapse. It has been assumed in this paper that the behavior of such circuits is manifested through the collective behavior of neurons belonging to that circuit. Behavioral information of each neuron is contained in the coefficients of the fast Fourier transform (FFT) over the output spike train. Those coefficients form a vector in a multidimensional vector space. Behavioral dynamics of a neuronal network in response to strong aversive stimuli has been studied in a vector space in which a suitable pseudometric has been defined. The neurodynamical model of network behavior has been formulated in terms of existing memory, synaptic plasticity and feelings. The model has an analogy in classical electrostatics, by which the notion of force and potential energy has been introduced. Since the model takes input from each neuron in a network and produces a behavior as the output, it would be extremely difficult or may even be impossible to implement. But with the help of the model a possible explanation for an hitherto unexplained neurological observation in human brain has been offered. The model is compatible with a recent model of sequential behavioral dynamics. The model is based on electrophysiology, but its relevance to hemodynamics has been outlined. 
0704.00649	Quivers with potentials and their representations I: Mutations	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Harm Derksen, Jerzy Weyman, Andrei Zelevinsky	 Abstract: We study quivers with relations given by non-commutative analogs of Jacobian ideals in the complete path algebra. This framework allows us to give a representation-theoretic interpretation of quiver mutations at arbitrary vertices. This gives a far-reaching generalization of Bernstein-Gelfand-Ponomarev reflection functors. The motivations for this work come from several sources: superpotentials in physics, Calabi-Yau algebras, cluster algebras. 
0704.00650	Coherent macroscopic quantum tunneling in boson-fermion mixtures	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:D. Mozyrsky, I. Martin, E. Timmermans	 Abstract: We show that the cold atom systems of simultaneously trapped Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC's) and quantum degenerate fermionic atoms provide promising laboratories for the study of macroscopic quantum tunneling. Our theoretical studies reveal that the spatial extent of a small trapped BEC immersed in a Fermi sea can tunnel and coherently oscillate between the values of the separated and mixed configurations (the phases of the phase separation transition of BEC-fermion systems). We evaluate the period, amplitude and dissipation rate for $^{23}$Na and $^{40}$K-atoms and we discuss the experimental prospects for observing this phenomenon. 
0704.00651	Efficiency of thin film photocells	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:D. Mozyrsky, I. Martin	 Abstract: We propose a new concept for the design of high-efficiency photocells based on ultra-thin (submicron) semiconductor films of controlled thickness. Using a microscopic model of a thin dielectric layer interacting with incident electromagnetic radiation we evaluate the efficiency of conversion of solar radiation into the electric power. We determine the optimal range of parameters which maximize the efficiency of such photovoltaic element. 
0704.00652	Galactic Wind Signatures around High Redshift Galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Daisuke Kawata (1,2), Michael Rauch (1) ((1) Carnegie Observatories, (2) Swinburne)	 Abstract: We carry out cosmological chemodynamical simulations with different strengths of supernova (SN) feedback and study how galactic winds from star-forming galaxies affect the features of hydrogen (HI) and metal (CIV and OVI) absorption systems in the intergalactic medium at high redshift. We find that the outflows tend to escape to low density regions, and hardly affect the dense filaments visible in HI absorption. As a result, the strength of HI absorption near galaxies is not reduced by galactic winds, but even slightly increases. We also find that a lack of HI absorption for lines of sight (LOS) close to galaxies, as found by Adelberger et al., can be created by hot gas around the galaxies induced by accretion shock heating. In contrast to HI, metal absorption systems are sensitive to the presence of winds. The models without feedback can produce the strong CIV and OVI absorption lines in LOS within 50 kpc from galaxies, while strong SN feedback is capable of creating strong CIV and OVI lines out to about twice that distance. We also analyze the mean transmissivity of HI, CIV, and OVI within 1 h$^{-1}$ Mpc from star-forming galaxies. The probability distribution of the transmissivity of HI is independent of the strength of SN feedback, but strong feedback produces LOS with lower transmissivity of metal lines. Additionally, strong feedback can produce strong OVI lines even in cases where HI absorption is weak. We conclude that OVI is probably the best tracer for galactic winds at high redshift. 
0704.00653	`Stückelberg interferometry' with ultracold molecules	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:M. Mark, T. Kraemer, P. Waldburger, J. Herbig, C. Chin, H.-C. Naegerl, R. Grimm	 Abstract: We report on the realization of a time-domain `St\"uckelberg interferometer', which is based on the internal state structure of ultracold Feshbach molecules. Two subsequent passages through a weak avoided crossing between two different orbital angular momentum states in combination with a variable hold time lead to high-contrast population oscillations. This allows for a precise determination of the energy difference between the two molecular states. We demonstrate a high degree of control over the interferometer dynamics. The interferometric scheme provides new possibilities for precision measurements with ultracold molecules. 
0704.00654	An integral field spectroscopic survey for high redshift damped  Lyman-alpha galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:L. Christensen, L. Wisotzki, M. M. Roth, S. F. Sanchez, A. Kelz, K. Jahnke	 Abstract: We search for galaxy counterparts to damped Lyman-alpha absorbers (DLAs) at z>2 towards nine quasars, which have 14 DLAs and 8 sub-DLAs in their spectra. We use integral field spectroscopy to search for Ly-alpha emission line objects at the redshifts of the absorption systems. Besides recovering two previously confirmed objects, we find six statistically significant candidate Ly-alpha emission line objects. The candidates are identified as having wavelengths close to the DLA line where the background quasar emission is absorbed. In comparison with the six currently known Ly-alpha emitting DLA galaxies the candidates have similar line fluxes and line widths, while velocity offsets between the emission lines and systemic DLA redshifts are larger. The impact parameters are larger than 10 kpc, and lower column density systems are found at larger impact parameters. Assuming that a single gas cloud extends from the QSO line of sight to the location of the candidate emission line, we find that the average candidate DLA galaxy is surrounded by neutral gas with an exponential scale length of ~5 kpc. 
0704.00655	Exploring the Variable Sky with the Sloan Digital Sky Survey	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Branimir Sesar, Zeljko Ivezic, Robert H. Lupton, Mario Juric, James E. Gunn, Gillian R. Knapp, Nathan De Lee, J. Allyn Smith, Gajus Miknaitis, Huan Lin, Douglas Tucker, Mamoru Doi, Masayuki Tanaka, Masataka Fukugita, Jon Holtzman, Steve Kent, Brian Yanny, David Schlegel, Douglas Finkbeiner, Nikhil Padmanabhan, Constance M. Rockosi, Nicholas Bond, Brian Lee, Chris Stoughton, Sebastian Jester, Hugh Harris, Paul Harding, Jon Brinkmann, Donald P. Schneider, Donald York, Michael W. Richmond, Daniel Vanden Berk	 Abstract: We quantify the variability of faint unresolved optical sources using a catalog based on multiple SDSS imaging observations. The catalog covers SDSS Stripe 82, and contains 58 million photometric observations in the SDSS ugriz system for 1.4 million unresolved sources. In each photometric bandpass we compute various low-order lightcurve statistics and use them to select and study variable sources. We find that 2% of unresolved optical sources brighter than g=20.5 appear variable at the 0.05 mag level (rms) simultaneously in the g and r bands. The majority (2/3) of these variable sources are low-redshift (<2) quasars, although they represent only 2% of all sources in the adopted flux-limited sample. We find that at least 90% of quasars are variable at the 0.03 mag level (rms) and confirm that variability is as good a method for finding low-redshift quasars as is the UV excess color selection (at high Galactic latitudes). We analyze the distribution of lightcurve skewness for quasars and find that is centered on zero. We find that about 1/4 of the variable stars are RR Lyrae stars, and that only 0.5% of stars from the main stellar locus are variable at the 0.05 mag level. The distribution of lightcurve skewness in the g-r vs. u-g color-color diagram on the main stellar locus is found to be bimodal (with one mode consistent with Algol-like behavior). Using over six hundred RR Lyrae stars, we demonstrate rich halo substructure out to distances of 100 kpc. We extrapolate these results to expected performance by the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope and estimate that it will obtain well-sampled 2% accurate, multi-color lightcurves for ~2 million low-redshift quasars, and will discover at least 50 million variable stars. 
0704.00656	Necessary optimality conditions for the calculus of variations on time  scales	Optimization and Control (math.OC)	Authors:Rui A. C. Ferreira, Delfim F. M. Torres	 Abstract: We study more general variational problems on time scales. Previous results are generalized by proving necessary optimality conditions for (i) variational problems involving delta derivatives of more than the first order, and (ii) problems of the calculus of variations with delta-differential side conditions (Lagrange problem of the calculus of variations on time scales). 
0704.00657	The Boundary Conditions of the Heliosphere: Photoionization Models  Constrained by Interstellar and In Situ Data	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jonathan D. Slavin, Priscilla C. Frisch	 Abstract: The boundary conditions of the heliosphere are set by the ionization, density and composition of inflowing interstellar matter. Constraining the properties of the Local Interstellar Cloud (LIC) at the heliosphere requires radiative transfer ionization models. We model the background interstellar radiation field using observed stellar FUV and EUV emission and the diffuse soft X-ray background. We also model the emission from the boundary between the LIC and the hot Local Bubble (LB) plasma, assuming that the cloud is evaporating because of thermal conduction. We create a grid of models covering a plausible range of LIC and LB properties, and use the modeled radiation field as input to radiative transfer/thermal equilibrium calculations using the Cloudy code. Data from in situ observations of He^O, pickup ions and anomalous cosmic rays in the heliosphere, and absorption line measurements towards epsilon CMa were used to constrain the input parameters. A restricted range of assumed LIC HI column densities and LB plasma temperatures produce models that match all the observational constraints. The relative weakness of the constraints on N(HI) and T_h contrast with the narrow limits predicted for the H^O and electron density in the LIC at the Sun, n(H^0) = 0.19 - 0.20 cm^-3, and n(e) = 0.07 +/- 0.01 cm^-3. Derived abundances are mostly typical for low density gas, with sub-solar Mg, Si and Fe, possibly subsolar O and N, and S about solar; however C is supersolar. The interstellar gas at the Sun is warm, low density, and partially ionized, with n(H) = 0.23 - 0.27 cm^-3, T = 6300 K, X(H^+) ~ 0.2, and X(He^+) ~ 0.4. These results appear to be robust since acceptable models are found for substantially different input radiation fields. Our results favor low values for the reference solar abundances for the LIC composition. 
0704.00658	Collective excitations in a magnetically doped quantized Hall  ferromagnet	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:S. Dickmann, V. Fleurov, K. Kikoin	 Abstract: A theory of collective states in a magnetically quantized two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG) with half-filled Landau level (quantized Hall ferromagnet) in the presence of magnetic 3d impurities is developed. The spectrum of bound and delocalized spin-excitons as well as the renormalization of Zeeman splitting of the impurity 3d levels due to the indirect exchange interaction with the 2DEG are studied for the specific case of n-type GaAs doped with Mn where the Lande` g-factors of impurity and 2DEG have opposite signs. If the sign of the 2DEG g-factor is changed due to external influences, then impurity related transitions to new ground state phases, presenting various spin-flip and skyrmion-like textures, are possible. Conditions for existence of these phases are discussed. PACS: 73.43.Lp, 73.21.Fg, 72.15.Rn 
0704.00659	Long Gamma-Ray Burst Progenitors: Boundary Conditions and Binary Models	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:E.P.J. van den Heuvel, S.-C. Yoon	 Abstract: The observed association of Long Gamma-Ray Bursts (LGRBs) with peculiar Type Ic supernovae gives support to Woosley`s collapsar/hypernova model, in which the GRB is produced by the collapse of the rapidly rotating core of a massive star to a black hole. The association of LGRBs with small star-forming galaxies suggests low-metallicity to be a condition for a massive star to evolve to the collapsar stage. Both completely-mixed single star models and binary star models are possible. In binary models the progenitor of the GRB is a massive helium star with a close companion. We find that tidal synchronization during core-helium burning is reached on a short timescale (less than a few millennia). However, the strong core-envelope coupling in the subsequent evolutionary stages is likely to rule out helium stars with main-sequence companions as progenitors of hypernovae/GRBs. On the other hand, helium stars in close binaries with a neutron-star or black-hole companion can, despite the strong core-envelope coupling in the post-helium burning phase, retain sufficient core angular momentum to produce a hypernova/GRB. 
0704.00660	Multiscale model of electronic behavior and localization in stretched  dry DNA	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Ryan Barnett, Paul Maragakis, Ari Turner, Maria Fyta, Efthimios Kaxiras	 Abstract: When the DNA double helix is subjected to external forces it can stretch elastically to elongations reaching 100% of its natural length. These distortions, imposed at the mesoscopic or macroscopic scales, have a dramatic effect on electronic properties at the atomic scale and on electrical transport along DNA. Accordingly, a multiscale approach is necessary to capture the electronic behavior of the stretched DNA helix. To construct such a model, we begin with accurate density-functional-theory calculations for electronic states in DNA bases and base pairs in various relative configurations encountered in the equilibrium and stretched forms. These results are complemented by semi-empirical quantum mechanical calculations for the states of a small size [18 base pair poly(CG)-poly(CG)] dry, neutral DNA sequence, using previously published models for stretched DNA. The calculated electronic states are then used to parametrize an effective tight-binding model that can describe electron hopping in the presence of environmental effects, such as the presence of stray water molecules on the backbone or structural features of the substrate. These effects introduce disorder in the model hamiltonian which leads to electron localization. The localization length is smaller by several orders of magnitude in stretched DNA relative to that in the unstretched structure. 
0704.00661	Ample subvarieties and rationally connected fibrations	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Mauro C. Beltrametti, Tommaso de Fernex, Antonio Lanteri	 Abstract: Under some positivity assumptions, extension properties of rationally connected fibrations from a submanifold to its ambient variety are studied. Given a family of rational curves on a complex projective manifold X inducing a covering family on a submanifold Y with ample normal bundle in X, the main results relate, under suitable conditions, the associated rational connected fiber structures on X and on Y. Applications of these results include an extension theorem for Mori contractions of fiber type and a classification theorem in the case Y has a structure of projective bundle or quadric fibration. 
0704.00662	Bounds for Multiplicities of Unitary Representations of Cohomological  Type in Spaces of Cusp Forms	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Frank Calegari, Matthew Emerton	 Abstract: Let $\Goo$ be a semisimple real Lie group with unitary dual $\Ghat$. The goal of this note is to produce new upper bounds for the multiplicities with which representations $\pi \in \Ghat$ of cohomological type appear in certain spaces of cusp forms on $\Goo$. 
0704.00663	Decoherence of Quantum-Enhanced Timing Accuracy	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Mankei Tsang (California Institute of Technology)	 Abstract: Quantum enhancement of optical pulse timing accuracy is investigated in the Heisenberg picture. Effects of optical loss, group-velocity dispersion, and Kerr nonlinearity on the position and momentum of an optical pulse are studied via Heisenberg equations of motion. Using the developed formalism, the impact of decoherence by optical loss on the use of adiabatic soliton control for beating the timing standard quantum limit [Tsang, Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 023902 (2006)] is analyzed theoretically and numerically. The analysis shows that an appreciable enhancement can be achieved using current technology, despite an increase in timing jitter mainly due to the Gordon-Haus effect. The decoherence effect of optical loss on the transmission of quantum-enhanced timing information is also studied, in order to identify situations in which the enhancement is able to survive. 
0704.00664	Stock market return distributions: from past to present	Statistical Finance (q-fin.ST)	Authors:S. Drozdz, M. Forczek, J. Kwapien, P. Oswiecimka, R. Rak	 Abstract: We show that recent stock market fluctuations are characterized by the cumulative distributions whose tails on short, minute time scales exhibit power scaling with the scaling index alpha > 3 and this index tends to increase quickly with decreasing sampling frequency. Our study is based on high-frequency recordings of the S&P500, DAX and WIG20 indices over the interval May 2004 - May 2006. Our findings suggest that dynamics of the contemporary market may differ from the one observed in the past. This effect indicates a constantly increasing efficiency of world markets. 
0704.00665	Global well-posedness and scattering for the energy-critical, defocusing  Hartree equation for radial data	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Changxing Miao, Guixiang Xu, Lifeng Zhao	 Abstract: We consider the defocusing, $\dot{H}^1$-critical Hartree equation for the radial data in all dimensions $(n\geq 5)$. We show the global well-posedness and scattering results in the energy space. The new ingredient in this paper is that we first take advantage of the term $\displaystyle - \int_{I}\int_{|x|\leq A|I|^{1/2}}|u|^{2}\Delta \Big(\frac{1}{|x|}\Big)dxdt$ in the localized Morawetz identity to rule out the possibility of energy concentration, instead of the classical Morawetz estimate dependent of the nonlinearity. 
0704.00666	String inspired explanation for the super-acceleration of our universe	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Ahmad Sheykhi, Bin Wang, Nematollah Riazi	 Abstract: We investigate the effect of the bulk content in the general Gauss-Bonnet braneworld on the evolution of the universe. We find that the Gauss-Bonnet term and the combination of the dark radiation and the matter content of the bulk play a crucial role in the universe evolution. We show that our model can describe the super-acceleration of our universe with the equation of state of the effective dark energy in agreement with observations. 
0704.00667	Topological Free Entropy Dimension of in Unital C^*-algebras	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Don Hadwin, Junhao Shen	 Abstract: The notion of topological free entropy dimension of $n-$tuples of elements in a unital C$^*$ algebra was introduced by Voiculescu. In the paper, we compute topological free entropy dimension of one self-adjoint element and topological orbit dimension of one self-adjoint element in a unital C$^*$ algebra. Moreover, we calculate the values of topological free entropy dimensions of families of generators of some unital C$^*$ algebras (for example: irrational rotation C$^*$ algebras or minimal tensor product of two reduced C$^*$ algebras of free groups). 
0704.00668	J/psi Production in an Equilibrating Partonic System	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Xiao-Ming xu	 Abstract: Any color singlet or octet ccbar pair is created at short distances and then expands to a full size of J/psi. Such a dynamical evolution process is included here in calculations for the J/psi number distribution as a function of transverse momentum and rapidity in central Au-Au collisions at both RHIC and LHC energies. The ccbar pairs are produced in the initial collision and in the partonic system during the prethermal and thermal stages through the partonic channels ab to ccbar [{2S+1}L_J] and ab to ccbar [{2S+1}L_J]x, and then they dissociate in the latter two stages. Dissociation of ccbar in the medium occurs via two reactions: (a) color singlet ccbar plus a gluon turns to color octet ccbar, (b) color octet ccbar plus a gluon persists as color octet. There are modest yields of ccbar in the prethermal stage at RHIC energy and through the reactions ab to ccbar [{2S+1}L_J] at LHC energy for partons with large average momentum in the prethermal stage at both collider energies and in the thermal stage at LHC energy. Production from the partonic system competes with the suppression of the initial yield in the deconfined medium. Consequently, a bulge within -1.5<y<1.5 has been found for the J/psi number distribution and the ratio of J/psi number distributions for Au-Au collisions to nucleon-nucleon collisions. This bulge is caused by the partonic system and is thus an indicator of a deconfined partonic medium. Based on this result we suggest the rapidity region worth measuring in future experiments at RHIC and LHC to be -3<y<3. 
0704.00669	Reduced and Extended Weak Coupling Limit	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:J. Derezinski, W. De Roeck	 Abstract: We give an extended review of recent work on the extended weak coupling limit. Background material on completely positive semigroups and their unitary dilations is given, as well as a particularly easy construction of `quadratic noises'. 
0704.00670	Complete Set of Polarization Transfer Observables for the $^{12}{\rm  C}(p,n)$ Reaction at 296 MeV and 0$^{\circ}$	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:M. Dozono, T. Wakasa, E. Ihara, S. Asaji, K. Fujita, K. Hatanaka, T. Ishida, T. Kaneda, H. Matsubara, Y. Nagasue, T. Noro, Y. Sakemi, Y. Shimizu, H. Takeda, Y. Tameshige, A. Tamii, Y. Yamada	 Abstract: A complete set of polarization transfer observables has been measured for the $^{12}{\rm C}(p,n)$ reaction at $T_p=296 {\rm MeV}$ and $\theta_{\rm lab}=0^{\circ}$. The total spin transfer $\Sigma(0^{\circ})$ and the observable $f_1$ deduced from the measured polarization transfer observables indicate that the spin--dipole resonance at $E_x \simeq 7 {\rm MeV}$ has greater $2^-$ strength than $1^-$ strength, which is consistent with recent experimental and theoretical studies. The results also indicate a predominance of the spin-flip and unnatural-parity transition strength in the continuum. The exchange tensor interaction at a large momentum transfer of $Q \simeq 3.6 {\rm fm}^{-1}$ is discussed. 
0704.00671	Learning from compressed observations	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Maxim Raginsky	 Abstract: The problem of statistical learning is to construct a predictor of a random variable $Y$ as a function of a related random variable $X$ on the basis of an i.i.d. training sample from the joint distribution of $(X,Y)$. Allowable predictors are drawn from some specified class, and the goal is to approach asymptotically the performance (expected loss) of the best predictor in the class. We consider the setting in which one has perfect observation of the $X$-part of the sample, while the $Y$-part has to be communicated at some finite bit rate. The encoding of the $Y$-values is allowed to depend on the $X$-values. Under suitable regularity conditions on the admissible predictors, the underlying family of probability distributions and the loss function, we give an information-theoretic characterization of achievable predictor performance in terms of conditional distortion-rate functions. The ideas are illustrated on the example of nonparametric regression in Gaussian noise. 
0704.00672	Hamiltonian formalism in Friedmann cosmology and its quantization	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Jie Ren, Xin-He Meng, Liu Zhao	 Abstract: We propose a Hamiltonian formalism for a generalized Friedmann-Roberson-Walker cosmology model in the presence of both a variable equation of state (EOS) parameter $w(a)$ and a variable cosmological constant $\Lambda(a)$, where $a$ is the scale factor. This Hamiltonian system containing 1 degree of freedom and without constraint, gives Friedmann equations as the equation of motion, which describes a mechanical system with a variable mass object moving in a potential field. After an appropriate transformation of the scale factor, this system can be further simplified to an object with constant mass moving in an effective potential field. In this framework, the $\Lambda$ cold dark matter model as the current standard model of cosmology corresponds to a harmonic oscillator. We further generalize this formalism to take into account the bulk viscosity and other cases. The Hamiltonian can be quantized straightforwardly, but this is different from the approach of the Wheeler-DeWitt equation in quantum cosmology. 
0704.00673	Optimal stimulus and noise distributions for information transmission  via suprathreshold stochastic resonance	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Mark D. McDonnell, Nigel G. Stocks, Derek Abbott	 Abstract: Suprathreshold stochastic resonance (SSR) is a form of noise enhanced signal transmission that occurs in a parallel array of independently noisy identical threshold nonlinearities, including model neurons. Unlike most forms of stochastic resonance, the output response to suprathreshold random input signals of arbitrary magnitude is improved by the presence of even small amounts of noise. In this paper the information transmission performance of SSR in the limit of a large array size is considered. Using a relationship between Shannon's mutual information and Fisher information, a sufficient condition for optimality, i.e. channel capacity, is derived. It is shown that capacity is achieved when the signal distribution is Jeffrey's prior, as formed from the noise distribution, or when the noise distribution depends on the signal distribution via a cosine relationship. These results provide theoretical verification and justification for previous work in both computational neuroscience and electronics. 
0704.00674	Three Different Types of Galaxy Alignment within Dark Matter Halos	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Faltenbacher, Cheng Li, Shude Mao, Frank C. van den Bosch, Xiaohu Yang, Y.P. Jing, Anna Pasquali, H.J. Mo	 Abstract: Using a large galaxy group catalogue based on the Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 4 we measure three different types of intrinsic galaxy alignment within groups: halo alignment between the orientation of the brightest group galaxies (BGG) and the distribution of its satellite galaxies, radial alignment between the orientation of a satellite galaxy and the direction towards its BGG, and direct alignment between the orientation of the BGG and that of its satellites. In agreement with previous studies we find that satellite galaxies are preferentially located along the major axis. In addition, on scales r < 0.7 Rvir we find that red satellites are preferentially aligned radially with the direction to the BGG. The orientations of blue satellites, however, are perfectly consistent with being isotropic. Finally, on scales r < 0.1 \Rvir, we find a weak but significant indication for direct alignment between satellites and BGGs. We briefly discuss the implications for weak lensing measurements. 
0704.00675	Proto-Neutron Star Winds, Magnetar Birth, and Gamma-Ray Bursts	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:B.D. Metzger, T.A. Thompson, E. Quataert	 Abstract: We begin by reviewing the theory of thermal, neutrino-driven proto-neutron star (PNS) winds. Including the effects of magnetic fields and rotation, we then derive the mass and energy loss from magnetically-driven PNS winds for both relativistic and non-relativistic outflows, including important multi-dimensional considerations. With these simple analytic scalings we argue that proto-magnetars born with ~ millisecond rotation periods produce relativistic winds just a few seconds after core collapse with luminosities, timescales, mass-loading, and internal shock efficiencies favorable for producing long-duration gamma-ray bursts. 
0704.00676	A very massive runaway star from Cygnus OB2	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:F. Comeron, A. Pasquali	 Abstract: Aims: We analyze the available information on the star BD+43 3654 to investigate the possibility that it may have had its origin in the massive OB association Cygnus OB2. Methods: We present new spectroscopic observations allowing a reliable spectral classification of the star, and discuss existing MSX observations of its associated bow shock and astrometric information not previously studied. Results: Our observations reveal that BD+43 3654 is a very early and luminous star of spectral type O4If, with an estimated mass of (70 +/- 15) solar masses and an age of about 1.6 Myr. The high spatial resolution of the MSX observations allows us to determine its direction of motion in the plane of the sky by means of the symmetry axis of the well-defined bow shock, which matches well the orientation expected from the proper motion. Tracing back its path across the sky we find that BD+43 3654 was located near the central, densest region of Cygnus OB2 at a time in the past similar to its estimated age. Conclusions: BD+43 3654 turns out to be one of the three most massive runaway stars known, and it most likely formed in the central region of Cygnus OB2. A runaway formation mechanism by means of dynamical ejection is consistent with our results. 
0704.00677	Optical spectrum of the post-AGB star HD56126 in the region 4010-8790 AA	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:V.G.Klochkova, E.L.Chentsov, N.S.Tavolganskaya, M.V.Shapovalov	 Abstract: We studied in detail the optical spectrum of the post-AGB star HD56126 (IRAS07134+1005). We use high resolution spectra (R=25000 and 60000) obtained with the echelle spectrographs of the 6-m telescope. About one and a half thousand absorptions of neutral atoms and ions, absorption bands of C_2, CN, and CH molecules, and interstellar bands (DIBs) are identified in the 4010 to 8790 AA wavelength region, and the depths and radial velocities of these spectral features are measured. Differences are revealed between the variations of the radial velocities measured from spectral features of different excitation. In addition to the well-known variability of the Halpha profile, we found variations in the profiles of a number of FeII, YII, and BaII lines. We also produce an atlas of the spectrum of HD56126 and its comparison staralpha Per. The full version of the atlas is available in electronic form from Web-address: this http URL 
0704.00678	Generation of Large Number-Path Entanglement Using Linear Optics and  Feed-Forward	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Hugo Cable, Jonathan P. Dowling	 Abstract: We show how an idealised measurement procedure can condense photons from two modes into one, and how, by feeding forward the results of the measurement, it is possible to generate efficiently superpositions of components for which only one mode is populated, commonly called ``N00N states''. For the basic procedure, sources of number states leak onto a beam splitter, and the output ports are monitored by photodetectors. We find that detecting a fixed fraction of the input at one output port suffices to direct the remainder to the same port with high probability, however large the initial state. When instead photons are detected at both ports, Schr\"{o}dinger cat states are produced. We describe a circuit for making the components of such a state orthogonal, and another for subsequent conversion to a N00N state. Our approach scales exponentially better than existing proposals. Important applications include quantum imaging and metrology. 
0704.00679	Finite branch solutions to Painleve VI around a fixed singular point	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Katsunori Iwasaki	 Abstract: Every finite branch solutions to the sixth Painleve equation around a fixed singular point is an algebraic branch solution. In particular a global solution is an algebraic solution if and only if it is finitely many-valued globally. The proof of this result relies on algebraic geometry of Painleve VI, Riemann-Hilbert correspondence, geometry and dynamics on cubic surfaces, resolutions of Kleinian singularities, and power geometry of algebraic differential equations. In the course of the proof we are also able to classify all finite branch solutions up to Backlund transformations. 
0704.00680	An Inverse $f(R)$ Gravitation for Cosmic Speed up, and Dark Energy  Equivalent	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Sohrab Rahvar, Yousef Sobouti	 Abstract: To explain the cosmic speed up, brought to light by the recent SNIa and CMB observations, we propose the following: a) In a spacetime endowed with a FRW metric, we choose an empirical scale factor that best explains the observations. b) We assume a modified gravity, generated by an unspecified field lagrangian, $f(R)$. c) We use the adopted empirical scale factor to work back retroactively to obtain $f(R)$, hence the term `Inverse $f(R)$'. d) Next we consider the classic GR and a conventional FRW universe that, in addition to its known baryonic content, possesses a hypothetical `Dark Energy' component. We compare the two scenarios, and find the density, the pressure, and the equation of the state of the Dark Energy required to make up for the differences between the conventional and the modified GR models. 
0704.00681	Monitoring spatially heterogeneous dynamics in a drying colloidal thin  film	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:P. Zakharov, F. Scheffold	 Abstract: We report on a new type of experiment that enables us to monitor spatially and temporally heterogeneous dynamic properties in complex fluids. Our approach is based on the analysis of near-field speckles produced by light diffusely reflected from the superficial volume of a strongly scattering medium. By periodic modulation of an incident speckle beam we obtain pixel-wise ensemble averages of the structure function coefficient, a measure of the dynamic activity. To illustrate the application of our approach we follow the different stages in the drying process of a colloidal thin film. We show that we can access ensemble averaged dynamic properties on length scales as small as ten micrometers over the full field of view. 
0704.00682	Mapping the circumstellar SiO maser emission in R Leo	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R.Soria-Ruiz (1), J.Alcolea (2), F.Colomer (2), V.Bujarrabal (2), J.-F.Desmurs (2) ((1) Joint Institute for VLBI in Europe-The Netherlands, (2) Observatorio Astronomico Nacional-Spain)	 Abstract: The study of the innermost circumstellar layers around AGB stars is crucial to understand how these envelopes are formed and evolve. The SiO maser emission occurs at a few stellar radii from the central star, providing direct information on the stellar pulsation and on the chemical and physical properties of these regions. Our data also shed light on several aspects of the SiO maser pumping theory that are not well understood yet. We aim to determine} the relative spatial distribution of the 43 GHz and 86 GHz SiO maser lines in the oxygen-rich evolved star R Leo. We have imaged with milliarcsecond resolution, by means of Very Long Baseline Interferometry, the 43 GHz (28SiO v=1, 2 J=1-0 and 29SiO v=0 J=1-0) and 86 GHz (28SiO v=1 J=2-1 and 29SiO v=0 J=2-1) masing regions. We confirm previous results obtained in other oxygen-rich envelopes. In particular, when comparing the 43 GHz emitting regions, the 28SiO v=2 transition is produced in an inner layer, closer to the central star. On the other hand, the 86 GHz line arises in a clearly farther shell. We have also mapped for the first time the 29SiO v=0 J=1-0 emission in R Leo. The already reported discrepancy between the observed distributions of the different maser lines and the theoretical predictions is also found in R Leo. 
0704.00683	Partially disordered state near ferromagnetic transition in MnSi	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:S.V. Maleyev S.V. Grigoriev	 Abstract: The polarized neutron scattering in helimagnetic MnSi at low $T$ reveals existence of a partially disordered chiral state at ambient pressure in the magnetic field applied along $<111>$ axis below the first order transition to the non-chiral ferromagnetic state. This unexpected phenomenon is explained by the analysis of the spin-wave spectrum. We demonstrate that the square of the spin-wave gap becomes negative under magnetic field applied along $<111>$ and $<110>$ but not along the $<100>$ direction. It is a result of competition between the spin-wave interaction and cubic anisotropy. This negative sign means an instability of the spin wave spectrum for the helix and leads to a destruction of the helical order, giving rise to the partially disordered state below the first order ferromagnetic transition. 
0704.00684	Fluctuations in glassy systems	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Claudio Chamon, Leticia F. Cugliandolo	 Abstract: We summarize a theoretical framework based on global time-reparametrization invariance that explains the origin of dynamic fluctuations in glassy systems. We introduce the main ideas without getting into much technical details. We describe a number of consequences arising from this scenario that can be tested numerically and experimentally distinguishing those that can also be explained by other mechanisms from the ones that we believe, are special to our proposal. We support our claims by presenting some numerical checks performed on the 3d Edwards-Anderson spin-glass. Finally, we discuss up to which extent these ideas apply to super-cooled liquids that have been studied in much more detail up to present. 
0704.00685	A generalization of Chebyshev polynomials and non rooted posets	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Masaya Tomie	 Abstract: In this paper we give a generalization of Chebyshev polynomials and using this we describe the M\"obius function of the generalized subword order from a poset {a1,...as,c |ai<c}, which contains an affirmative answer for the conjecture by Bj\"orner, Sagan, Vatter.[5,10] 
0704.00686	Statistical analysis of weighted networks	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Antoniou Ioannis, Tsompa Eleni	 Abstract: The purpose of this paper is to assess the statistical characterization of weighted networks in terms of the generalization of the relevant parameters, namely average path length, degree distribution and clustering coefficient. Although the degree distribution and the average path length admit straightforward generalizations, for the clustering coefficient several different definitions have been proposed in the literature. We examined the different definitions and identified the similarities and differences between them. In order to elucidate the significance of different definitions of the weighted clustering coefficient, we studied their dependence on the weights of the connections. For this purpose, we introduce the relative perturbation norm of the weights as an index to assess the weight distribution. This study revealed new interesting statistical regularities in terms of the relative perturbation norm useful for the statistical characterization of weighted graphs. 
0704.00687	Finite dimensionality of 2-D micropolar fluid flow with periodic  boundary conditions	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Piotr Szopa	 Abstract: This paper is devoted to describe the finite-dimensionality of a two-dimensional micropolar fluid flow with periodic boundary conditions. We define the notions of determining modes and nodes and estimate the number of them, we also estimate the dimension of the global attractor. Finally we compare our results with analogous results for Navier-Stokes equation. 
0704.00688	Strong Spherical Asymptotics for Rotor-Router Aggregation and the  Divisible Sandpile	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Lionel Levine, Yuval Peres	 Abstract: The rotor-router model is a deterministic analogue of random walk. It can be used to define a deterministic growth model analogous to internal DLA. We prove that the asymptotic shape of this model is a Euclidean ball, in a sense which is stronger than our earlier work. For the shape consisting of $n=\omega_d r^d$ sites, where $\omega_d$ is the volume of the unit ball in $\R^d$, we show that the inradius of the set of occupied sites is at least $r-O(\log r)$, while the outradius is at most $r+O(r^\alpha)$ for any $\alpha > 1-1/d$. For a related model, the divisible sandpile, we show that the domain of occupied sites is a Euclidean ball with error in the radius a constant independent of the total mass. For the classical abelian sandpile model in two dimensions, with $n=\pi r^2$ particles, we show that the inradius is at least $r/\sqrt{3}$, and the outradius is at most $(r+o(r))/\sqrt{2}$. This improves on bounds of Le Borgne and Rossin. Similar bounds apply in higher dimensions. 
0704.00689	Study on Correlations between the Twin Kilohertz Quasi-periodic  Oscillations in Low-mass X-ray Binaries	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:H. X. Yin, Y. H. Zhao	 Abstract: The recently updated data of the twin kilohertz quasi-periodic oscillations (kHz QPOs) in the neutron star low-mass X-ray binaries are analyzed. The power-law fitting $\nu_{1}=a(\nu_{2}/1000)^{b}$ and linear fitting $\nu_{2}=A\nu_{1}+B$ are applied, individually, to the data points of four Z sources (GX 17+2, GX 340+0, GX 5-1 and Sco X-1) and four Atoll sources (4U 0614+09, 4U 1608-52, 4U 1636-53 and 4U 1728-34). The $\chi^{2}$-tests show that the power-law correlation and linear correlation both can fit data well. Moreover, the comparisons between the data and the theoretical models for kHz QPOs are discussed. 
0704.00690	Fuzzballs with internal excitations	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Ingmar Kanitscheider, Kostas Skenderis, Marika Taylor	 Abstract: We construct general 2-charge D1-D5 horizon-free non-singular solutions of IIB supergravity on T^4 and K3 describing fuzzballs with excitations in the internal manifold; these excitations are characterized by arbitrary curves. The solutions are obtained via dualities from F1-P solutions of heterotic and type IIB on T^4 for the K3 and T^4 cases, respectively. We compute the holographic data encoded in these solutions, and show that the internal excitations are captured by vevs of chiral primaries associated with the middle cohomology of T^4 or K3. We argue that each geometry is dual to a specific superposition of R ground states determined in terms of the Fourier coefficients of the curves defining the supergravity solution. We compute vevs of chiral primaries associated with the middle cohomology and show that they indeed acquire vevs in the superpositions corresponding to fuzzballs with internal excitations, in accordance with the holographic results. We also address the question of whether the fuzzball program can be implemented consistently within supergravity. 
0704.00691	Birth, survival and death of languages by Monte Carlo simulation	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:C. Schulze, D. Stauffer, S. Wichmann	 Abstract: Simulations of physicists for the competition between adult languages since 2003 are reviewed. How many languages are spoken by how many people? How many languages are contained in various language families? How do language similarities decay with geographical distance, and what effects do natural boundaries have? New simulations of bilinguality are given in an appendix. 
0704.00692	Rigorous derivation of the mean field Green functions of the two-band  Hubbard model of superconductivity	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Gh. Adam, S. Adam (LIT-JINR, Dubna, Russia and IFIN-HH, Magurele-Bucharest, Romania)	 Abstract: The Green function (GF) equation of motion technique for solving the effective two-band Hubbard model of high-T_c superconductivity in cuprates [N.M. Plakida et al., Phys. Rev. B, v. 51, 16599 (1995); JETP, v. 97, 331 (2003)] rests on the Hubbard operator (HO) algebra. We show that, if we take into account the invariance to translations and spin reversal, the HO algebra results in invariance properties of several specific correlation functions. The use of these properties allows rigorous derivation and simplification of the expressions of the frequency matrix (FM) and of the generalized mean field approximation (GMFA) Green functions (GFs) of the model. For the normal singlet hopping and anomalous exchange pairing correlation functions which enter the FM and GMFA-GFs, an approximation procedure based on the identification and elimination of exponentially small quantities is described. It secures the reduction of the correlation order to GMFA-GF expressions. 
0704.00693	Geometry Effects at Atomic-Size Aluminium Contacts	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Udo Schwingenschloegl, Cosima Schuster	 Abstract: We present electronic structure calculations for aluminium nanocontacts. Addressing the neck of the contact, we compare characteristic geometries to investigate the effects of the local aluminium coordination on the electronic states. We find that the Al 3pz states are very sensitive against modifications of the orbital overlap, which has serious consequences for the transport properties. Stretching of the contact shifts states towards the Fermi energy, leaving the system instable against ferromagnetic ordering. By spacial restriction, hybridization is locally suppressed at nanocontacts and the charge neutrality is violated. We discuss the influence of mechanical stress by means of quantitative results for the charge transfer. 
0704.00694	Current - voltage characteristics of break junctions of high-$T_c$  superconductors	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:D M Gokhfeld, D A Balaev, K A Shaykhutdinov, S I Popkov, M I Petrov	 Abstract: The current-voltage ($I$-$V$) characteristics of break junctions of polycrystalline La$_{1.85}$Sr$_{0.15}$CuO$_4$, Y$_{0.75}$Lu$_{0.25}$Ba$_2$Cu$_3$O$_{7-\delta}$, Bi$_{1.8}$Pb$_{0.3}$Sr$_{1.9}$Ca$_2$Cu$_3$O$_x$ and composite YBa$_2$Cu$_3$O$_{7-\delta}$ + Ag are investigated. The experimental $I$-$V$ curves exhibit the specific peculiarities of superconductor/normal-metal/superconductor junctions. The relation between an $I$-$V$ characteristic of network of weak links and $I$-$V$ dependencies of typical weak links is suggested to describe the experimental data. The $I$-$V$ curves of typical weak links are calculated by the K\"{u}mmel - Gunsenheimer - Nicolsky model considering the multiple Andreev reflections. 
0704.00695	Photon splitting in a laser field	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:A. Di Piazza, A. I. Milstein, C. H. Keitel	 Abstract: Photon splitting due to vacuum polarization in a laser field is considered. Using an operator technique, we derive the amplitudes for arbitrary strength, spectral content and polarization of the laser field. The case of a monochromatic circularly polarized laser field is studied in detail and the amplitudes are obtained as three-fold integrals. The asymptotic behavior of the amplitudes for various limits of interest are investigated also in the case of a linearly polarized laser field. Using the obtained results, the possibility of experimental observation of the process is discussed. 
0704.00696	Phonon instability and structural phase transition in Vanadium under  high pressure	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Ashok K. Verma, P. Modak	 Abstract: Results of the first-principles calculations are presented for the group-VB metals V, Nb and Ta up to couple of megabar pressure. An unique structural phase transition sequence BCC-->(at 60 GPa) rhombohedral (angle=110.5 degree)-->(at ~ 160 GPa)rhombohedral(angle=108.5 degree)--> (at ~ 430 GPa) BCC is predicted in V. We also find that BCC-V becomes mechanically and vibrationally unstable at around 112 GPa pressure. Similar transitions are absent in Nb and Ta. 
0704.00697	CP violation due to multi Froggatt-Nielsen fields	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Shinya Kanemura, Koichi Matsuda, Toshihiko Ota, Serguey Petcov, Tetsuo Shindou, Eiichi Takasugi, Koji Tsumura	 Abstract: We study how to incorporate CP violation in the Froggatt--Nielsen (FN) mechanism. To this end, we introduce non-renormalizable interactions with a flavor democratic structure to the fermion mass generation sector. It is found that at least two iso-singlet scalar fields with imposed a discrete symmetry are necessary to generate CP violation due to the appearance of the relative phase between their vacuum expectation values. In the simplest model, ratios of quark masses and the Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa (CKM) matrix including the CP violating phase are determined by the CKM element |V_{us}| and the ratio of two vacuum expectation values R=|R|e^{i*alpha} (a magnitude and a phase). It is demonstrated how the angles phi_i (i=1--3) of the unitarity triangle and the CKM off-diagonal elements |V_{ub}| and |V_{cb}| are predicted as a function of |V_{us}|, |R| and \alpha. Although the predicted value of the CP violating phase does not agree with the experimental data within the simplest model, the basic idea of our scenario would be promising to construct a more realistic model of flavor and CP violation. 
0704.00698	Rigorous Results for the Periodic Oscillation of an Adiabatic Piston	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Paul Wright	 Abstract: We study a heavy piston of mass $M$ that moves in one dimension. The piston separates two gas chambers, each of which contains finitely many ideal, unit mass gas particles moving in $d$ dimensions, where $ d\geq 1$. Using averaging techniques, we prove that the actual motions of the piston converge in probability to the predicted averaged behavior on the time scale $M^ {1/2} $ when $M$ tends to infinity while the total energy of the system is bounded and the number of gas particles is fixed. Neishtadt and Sinai previously pointed out that an averaging theorem due to Anosov should extend to this situation. When $ d=1$, the gas particles move in just one dimension, and we prove that the rate of convergence of the actual motions of the piston to its averaged behavior is $\mathcal{O} (M^ {-1/2}) $ on the time scale $M^ {1/2} $. The convergence is uniform over all initial conditions in a compact set. We also investigate the piston system when the particle interactions have been smoothed. The convergence to the averaged behavior again takes place uniformly, both over initial conditions and over the amount of smoothing. In addition, we prove generalizations of our results to $N$ pistons separating $N+1$ gas chambers. We also provide a general discussion of averaging theory and the proofs of a number of previously known averaging results. In particular, we include a new proof of Anosov's averaging theorem for smooth systems that is primarily due to Dolgopyat. 
0704.00699	Thermal decomposition of norbornane (bicyclo[2.2.1]heptane) dissolved in  benzene. Experimental study and mechanism investigation	Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)	Authors:Olivier Herbinet (DCPR), Baptiste Sirjean (DCPR), Frédérique Battin-Leclerc (DCPR), René Fournet (DCPR), Paul-Marie Marquaire (DCPR)	 Abstract: The thermal decomposition of norbornane (dissolved in benzene) has been studied in a jet stirred reactor at temperatures between 873 and 973 K, at residence times ranging from 1 to 4 s and at atmospheric pressure, leading to conversions from 0.04 to 22.6%. 25 reaction products were identified and quantified by gas chromatography, amongst which the main ones are hydrogen, ethylene and 1,3-cyclopentadiene. A mechanism investigation of the thermal decomposition of the norbornane - benzene binary mixture has been performed. Reactions involved in the mechanism have been reviewed: unimolecular initiations 1 by C-C bond scission of norbornane, fate of the generated diradicals, reactions of transfer and propagation of norbornyl radicals, reactions of benzene and cross-coupling reactions. 
0704.00700	Detailed kinetic study of the ring opening of cycloalkanes by CBS-QB3  calculations	Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)	Authors:Baptiste Sirjean (DCPR), Pierre-Alexandre Glaude (DCPR), M.F. Ruiz-Lopez (SRSMC), René Fournet (DCPR)	 Abstract: This work reports a theoretical study of the gas phase unimolecular decomposition of cyclobutane, cyclopentane and cyclohexane by means of quantum chemical calculations. A biradical mechanism has been envisaged for each cycloalkane, and the main routes for the decomposition of the biradicals formed have been investigated at the CBS-QB3 level of theory. Thermochemical data (\delta H^0_f, S^0, C^0_p) for all the involved species have been obtained by means of isodesmic reactions. The contribution of hindered rotors has also been included. Activation barriers of each reaction have been analyzed to assess the 1 energetically most favorable pathways for the decomposition of biradicals. Rate constants have been derived for all elementary reactions using transition state theory at 1 atm and temperatures ranging from 600 to 2000 K. Global rate constant for the decomposition of the cyclic alkanes in molecular products have been calculated. Comparison between calculated and experimental results allowed to validate the theoretical approach. An important result is that the rotational barriers between the conformers, which are usually neglected, are of importance in decomposition rate of the largest biradicals. Ring strain energies (RSE) in transition states for ring opening have been estimated and show that the main part of RSE contained in the cyclic reactants is removed upon the activation process. 
0704.00701	On thermal effects in solid state lasers: the case of ytterbium-doped  materials	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Sebastien Chenais (LCFIO, LPL), Frederic Druon (LCFIO), Sebastien Forget (LCFIO, LPL), Francois Balembois (LCFIO), Patrick Georges (LCFIO)	 Abstract: A review of theoretical and experimental studies of thermal effects in solid-state lasers is presented, with a special focus on diode-pumped ytterbium-doped materials. A large part of this review provides however general information applicable to any kind of solid-state laser. Our aim here is not to make a list of the techniques that have been used to minimize thermal effects, but instead to give an overview of the theoretical aspects underneath, and give a state-of-the-art of the tools at the disposal of the laser scientist to measure thermal effects. After a presentation of some general properties of Yb-doped materials, we address the issue of evaluating the temperature map in Yb-doped laser crystals, both theoretically and experimentally. This is the first step before studying the complex problem of thermal lensing (part III). We will focus on some newly discussed aspects, like the definition of the thermo-optic coefficient: we will highlight some misleading interpretations of thermal lensing experiments due to the use of the dn/dT parameter in a context where it is not relevant. Part IV will be devoted to a state-of-the-art of experimental techniques used to measure thermal lensing. Eventually, in part V, we will give some concrete examples in Yb-doped materials, where their peculiarities will be pointed out. 
0704.00702	Dimensional crossover of thermal conductance in nanowires	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Jian Wang, Jian-Sheng Wang	 Abstract: Dimensional dependence of thermal conductance at low temperatures in nanowires is studied using the nonequilibrium Green's function (NEGF) method. Our calculation shows a smooth dimensional crossover of thermal conductance in nanowire from one-dimensional to three-dimensional behavior with the increase of diameters. The results are consistent with the experimental findings that the temperature dependence of thermal conductance at low temperature for diameters from tens to hundreds nanometers will be close to Debye law. The calculation also suggests that universal thermal conductance is only observable in nanowires with small diameters. We also find that the interfacial thermal conductance across Si and Ge nanowire is much lower than the corresponding value in bulk materials. 
0704.00703	Transient behavior of surface plasmon polaritons scattered at a  subwavelength groove	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Gaetan Leveque, Olivier J. F. Martin, John Weiner	 Abstract: We present a numerical study and analytical model of the optical near-field diffracted in the vicinity of subwavelength grooves milled in silver surfaces. The Green's tensor approach permits computation of the phase and amplitude dependence of the diffracted wave as a function of the groove geometry. It is shown that the field diffracted along the interface by the groove is equivalent to replacing the groove by an oscillating dipolar line source. An analytic expression is derived from the Green's function formalism, that reproduces well the asymptotic surface plasmon polariton (SPP) wave as well as the transient surface wave in the near-zone close to the groove. The agreement between this model and the full simulation is very good, showing that the transient "near-zone" regime does not depend on the precise shape of the groove. Finally, it is shown that a composite diffractive evanescent wave model that includes the asymptotic SPP can describe the wavelength evolution in this transient near-zone. Such a semi-analytical model may be useful for the design and optimization of more elaborate photonic circuits whose behavior in large part will be controlled by surface waves. 
0704.00704	Entropic Measure and Wasserstein Diffusion	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Max-K von Renesse, Karl-Theodor Sturm	 Abstract: We construct a new random probability measure on the sphere and on the unit interval which in both cases has a Gibbs structure with the relative entropy functional as Hamiltonian. It satisfies a quasi-invariance formula with respect to the action of smooth diffeomorphism of the sphere and the interval respectively. The associated integration by parts formula is used to construct two classes of diffusion processes on probability measures (on the sphere or the unit interval) by Dirichlet form methods. The first one is closely related to Malliavin's Brownian motion on the homeomorphism group. The second one is a probability valued stochastic perturbation of the heat flow, whose intrinsic metric is the quadratic Wasserstein distance. It may be regarded as the canonical diffusion process on the Wasserstein space. 
0704.00705	Second-Order Eikonal Corrections for A(e,e'p)	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:B. Van Overmeire, J. Ryckebusch	 Abstract: The first-order eikonal approximation is frequently adopted in interpreting the results of $A(e,e'p)$ measurements. Glauber calculations, for example, typically adopt the first-order eikonal approximation. We present an extension of the relativistic eikonal approach to $A(e,e'p)$ which accounts for second-order eikonal corrections. The numerical calculations are performed within the relativistic optical model eikonal approximation. The nuclear transparency results indicate that the effect of the second-order eikonal corrections is rather modest, even at $Q^{2} \approx 0.2$ (GeV/c)$^2$. The same applies to polarization observables, left-right asymmetries, and differential cross sections at low missing momenta. At high missing momenta, however, the second-order eikonal corrections are significant and bring the calculations in closer agreement with the data and/or the exact results from models adopting partial-wave expansions. 
0704.00706	AKARI Detection of the Infrared-Bright Supernova Remnant B0104-72.3 in  the Small Magellanic Cloud	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Bon-Chul Koo, Ho-Gyu Lee, Dae-Sik Moon, Jae-Joon Lee, Ji Yeon Seok, Hyung Mok Lee, Seung Soo Hong, Myung Gyoon Lee, Hidehiro Kaneda, Yoshifusa Ita, Woong-Seob Jeong, Takashi Onaka, Itsuki Sakon, Takao Nakagawa, Hiroshi Murakami	 Abstract: We present a serendipitous detection of the infrared-bright supernova remnant (SNR) B0104-72.3 in the Small Magellanic Cloud by the Infrared Camera (IRC) onboard AKARI. An elongated, partially complete shell is detected in all four observed IRC bands covering 2.6-15 um. The infrared shell surrounds radio, optical, and X-ray emission associated with the SNR and is probably a radiative SNR shell. This is the first detection of a SNR shell in this near/mid-infrared waveband in the Small Magellanic Cloud. The IRC color indicates that the infrared emission might be from shocked H2 molecules with some possible contributions from ionic lines. We conclude that B0104-72.3 is a middle-aged SNR interacting with molecular clouds, similar to the Galactic SNR IC 443. Our results highlight the potential of AKARI IRC observations in studying SNRs, especially for diagnosing SNR shocks. 
0704.00707	Flory-Huggins theory for the solubility of heterogeneously-modified  polymers	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Patrick B. Warren	 Abstract: Many water soluble polymers are chemically modified versions of insoluble base materials such as cellulose. A Flory-Huggins model is solved to determine the effects of heterogeneity in modification on the solubility of such polymers. It is found that heterogeneity leads to decreased solubility, with the effect increasing with increasing blockiness. In the limit of extreme blockiness, the nature of the phase coexistence crosses over to a polymer-polymer demixing transition. Some consequences are discussed for the synthesis of partially modified polymers, and the experimental characterisation of such systems. 
0704.00708	On second order shape optimization methods for electrical impedance  tomography	Optimization and Control (math.OC)	Authors:Lekbir Afraites (LMAC), Marc Dambrine (LMAC), Djalil Kateb (LMAC)	 Abstract: This paper is devoted to the analysis of a second order method for recovering the \emph{a priori} unknown shape of an inclusion $\omega$ inside a body $\Omega$ from boundary measurement. This inverse problem - known as electrical impedance tomography - has many important practical applications and hence has focussed much attention during the last years. However, to our best knowledge, no work has yet considered a second order approach for this problem. This paper aims to fill that void: we investigate the existence of second order derivative of the state $u$ with respect to perturbations of the shape of the interface $\partial\omega$, then we choose a cost function in order to recover the geometry of $\partial \omega$ and derive the expression of the derivatives needed to implement the corresponding Newton method. We then investigate the stability of the process and explain why this inverse problem is severely ill-posed by proving the compactness of the Hessian at the global minimizer. 
0704.00709	Braiding transformation, entanglement swapping and Berry phase in  entanglement space	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Jing-Ling Chen, Kang Xue, Mo-Lin Ge	 Abstract: We show that braiding transformation is a natural approach to describe quantum entanglement, by using the unitary braiding operators to realize entanglement swapping and generate the GHZ states as well as the linear cluster states. A Hamiltonian is constructed from the unitary $\check{R}_{i,i+1}(\theta,\phi)$-matrix, where $\phi=\omega t$ is time-dependent while $\theta$ is time-independent. This in turn allows us to investigate the Berry phase in the entanglement space. 
0704.00710	Photoproduction of pi0 omega off protons for E(gamma) < 3 GeV	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:J. Junkersfeld, for the CB-ELSA collaboration	 Abstract: Differential and total cross-sections for photoproduction of gamma proton to proton pi0 omega and gamma proton to Delta+ omega were determined from measurements of the CB-ELSA experiment, performed at the electron accelerator ELSA in Bonn. The measurements covered the photon energy range from the production threshold up to 3GeV. 
0704.00711	Two-pion exchange three-nucleon potential: O(q^4) chiral expansion	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:S. Ishikawa, M.R. Robilotta	 Abstract: We present the expansion of the two-pion exchange three-nucleon potential (TPE-3NP) to chiral order q^4, which corresponds to a subset of all possibilities at this order and is based on the \piN amplitude at O(q^3). Results encompass both numerical corrections to strength coefficients of previous O(q^3) terms and new structures in the profile functions. The former are typically smaller than 10% whereas the latter arise from either loop functions or non-local gradients acting on the wave function. The influence of the new TPE-3NP over static and scattering three-body observables has been assessed and found to be small, as expected from perturbative corrections. 
0704.00712	Interference effects in above-threshold ionization from diatomic  molecules: determining the internuclear separation	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:H. Hetzheim, C. Figueira de Morisson Faria, W. Becker	 Abstract: We calculate angle-resolved above-threshold ionization spectra for diatomic molecules in linearly polarized laser fields, employing the strong-field approximation. The interference structure resulting from the individual contributions of the different scattering scenarios is discussed in detail, with respect to the dependence on the internuclear distance and molecular orientation. We show that, in general, the contributions from the processes in which the electron is freed at one center and rescatters off the other obscure the interference maxima and minima obtained from single-center processes. However, around the boundary of the energy regions for which rescattering has a classical counterpart, such processes play a negligible role and very clear interference patterns are observed. In such energy regions, one is able to infer the internuclear distance from the energy difference between adjacent interference minima. 
0704.00713	Neel order in the two-dimensional S=1/2 Heisenberg Model	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Ute Löw	 Abstract: The existence of Neel order in the S=1/2 Heisenberg model on the square lattice at T=0 is shown using inequalities set up by Kennedy, Lieb and Shastry in combination with high precision Quantum Monte Carlo data. 
0704.00714	Maximum solutions of normalized Ricci flows on 4-manifolds	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Fuquan Fang, Yuguang Zhang, Zhenlei Zhang	 Abstract: We consider maximum solution $g(t)$, $t\in [0, +\infty)$, to the normalized Ricci flow. Among other things, we prove that, if $(M, \omega) $ is a smooth compact symplectic 4-manifold such that $b_2^+(M)>1$ and let $g(t),t\in[0,\infty)$, be a solution to (1.3) on $M$ whose Ricci curvature satisfies that $|\text{Ric}(g(t))|\leq 3$ and additionally $\chi(M)=3 \tau (M)>0$, then there exists an $m\in \mathbb{N}$, and a sequence of points $\{x_{j,k}\in M\}$, $j=1, ..., m$, satisfying that, by passing to a subsequence, $$(M, g(t_{k}+t), x_{1,k},..., x_{m,k}) \stackrel{d_{GH}}\longrightarrow (\coprod_{j=1}^m N_j, g_{\infty}, x_{1,\infty}, ...,, x_{m,\infty}),$$ $t\in [0, \infty)$, in the $m$-pointed Gromov-Hausdorff sense for any sequence $t_{k}\longrightarrow \infty$, where $(N_{j}, g_{\infty})$, $j=1,..., m$, are complete complex hyperbolic orbifolds of complex dimension 2 with at most finitely many isolated orbifold points. Moreover, the convergence is $C^{\infty}$ in the non-singular part of $\coprod_1^m N_{j}$ and $\text{Vol}_{g_{0}}(M)=\sum_{j=1}^{m}\text{Vol}_{g_{\infty}}(N_{j})$, where $\chi(M)$ (resp. $\tau(M)$) is the Euler characteristic (resp. signature) of $M$. 
0704.00715	Phase separation and flux quantization in the doped quantum dimer model  on the square and triangular lattices	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:A. Ralko, F. Mila, D. Poilblanc	 Abstract: The doped two-dimensional quantum dimer model is investigated by numerical techniques on the square and triangular lattices, with significantly different results. On the square lattice, at small enough doping, there is always a phase separation between an insulating valence-bond solid and a uniform superfluid phase, whereas on the triangular lattice, doping leads directly to a uniform superfluid in a large portion of the RVB phase. Under an applied Aharonov-Bohm flux, the superfluid exhibits quantization in terms of half-flux quanta, consistent with Q=2e elementary charge quanta in transport properties. 
0704.00716	Limit distributions and scaling functions	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Christoph Richard	 Abstract: We discuss the asymptotic behaviour of models of lattice polygons, mainly on the square lattice. In particular, we focus on limiting area laws in the uniform perimeter ensemble where, for fixed perimeter, each polygon of a given area occurs with the same probability. We relate limit distributions to the scaling behaviour of the associated perimeter and area generating functions, thereby providing a geometric interpretation of scaling functions. To a major extent, this article is a pedagogic review of known results. 
0704.00717	Incommmensurability and unconventional superconductor to insulator  transition in the Hubbard model with bond-charge interaction	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:A. A. Aligia, A. Anfossi, L. Arrachea, C. Degli Esposti Boschi, A. O. Dobry, C. Gazza, A. Montorsi, F. Ortolani, M. E. Torio	 Abstract: We determine the quantum phase diagram of the one-dimensional Hubbard model with bond-charge interaction X in addition to the usual Coulomb repulsion U at half-filling. For large enough X and positive U the model shows three phases. For large U the system is in the spin-density wave phase already known in the usual Hubbard model. As U decreases, there is first a spin transition to a spontaneously dimerized bond-ordered wave phase and then a charge transition to a novel phase in which the dominant correlations at large distances correspond to an incommensurate singlet superconductor. 
0704.00718	Flavor Composition and Energy Spectrum of Astrophysical Neutrinos	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Paolo Lipari, Maurizio Lusignoli, Davide Meloni	 Abstract: The measurement of the flavor composition of the neutrino fluxes from astrophysical sources has been proposed as a method to study not only the nature of their emission mechanisms, but also the neutrino fundamental properties. It is however problematic to reconcile these two goals, since a sufficiently accurate understanding of the neutrino fluxes at the source is needed to extract information about the physics of neutrino propagation. In this work we discuss critically the expectations for the flavor composition and energy spectrum from different types of astrophysical sources, and comment on the theoretical uncertainties connected to our limited knowledge of their structure. 
0704.00719	Gravitational Wave Signals from Chaotic System: A Point Mass with A Disk	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Kenta Kiuchi, Hiroko Koyama, Kei-ichi Maeda	 Abstract: We study gravitational waves from a particle moving around a system of a point mass with a disk in Newtonian gravitational theory. A particle motion in this system can be chaotic when the gravitational contribution from a surface density of a disk is comparable with that from a point mass. In such an orbit, we sometimes find that there appears a phase of the orbit in which particle motion becomes to be nearly regular (the so-called ``stagnant motion'') for a finite time interval between more strongly chaotic phases. To study how these different chaotic behaviours affect on observation of gravitational waves, we investigate a correlation of the particle motion and the waves. We find that such a difference in chaotic motions reflects on the wave forms and energy spectra. The character of the waves in the stagnant motion is quite different from that either in a regular motion or in a more strongly chaotic motion. This suggests that we may make a distinction between different chaotic behaviours of the orbit via the gravitational waves. 
0704.00720	$C^r$-Lohner algorithm	Numerical Analysis (math.NA)	Authors:D. Wilczak, P. Zgliczyński	 Abstract: We present a Lohner type algorithm for the computation of rigorous bounds for solutions of ordinary differential equations and its derivatives with respect to initial conditions up to arbitrary order. As an application we prove the existence of multiple invariant tori around some elliptic periodic orbits for the pendulum equation with periodic forcing and for Michelson system. 
0704.00721	Timing evidence in determining the accretion state of the Seyfert galaxy  NGC 3783	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D.P. Summons, P. Arevalo, I.M. McHardy, P.Uttley, A.Bhaskar (University of Southampton)	 Abstract: Previous observations with the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE) have suggested that the power spectral density (PSD) of NGC 3783 flattens to a slope near zero at low frequencies, in a similar manner to that of Galactic black hole X-ray binary systems (GBHs) in the `hard' state. The low radio flux emitted by this object, however, is inconsistent with a hard state interpretation. The accretion rate of NGC 3783 (~7% of the Eddington rate) is similar to that of other AGN with `soft' state PSDs and higher than that at which the GBH Cyg X-1, with which AGN are often compared, changes between `hard' and `soft' states (~2% of the Eddington rate). If NGC 3783 really does have a `hard' state PSD, it would be quite unusual and would indicate that AGN and GBHs are not quite as similar as we currently believe. Here we present an improved X-ray PSD of NGC 3783, spanning from ~10^{-8} to ~10^{-3} Hz, based on considerably extended (5.5 years) RXTE observations combined with two orbits of continuous observation by XMM-Newton. We show that this PSD is, in fact, well fitted by a `soft' state model which has only one break, at high frequencies. Although a `hard' state model can also fit the data, the improvement in fit by adding a second break at low frequency is not significant. Thus NGC 3783 is not unusual. These results leave Arakelian 564 as the only AGN which shows a second break at low frequencies, although in that case the very high accretion rate implies a `very high', rather than `hard' state PSD. The break frequency found in NGC 3783 is consistent with the expectation based on comparisons with other AGN and GBHs, given its black hole mass and accretion rate. 
0704.00722	Two- and three-point Green's functions in two-dimensional Landau-gauge  Yang-Mills theory	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:Axel Maas	 Abstract: The ghost and gluon propagator and the ghost-gluon and three-gluon vertex of two-dimensional SU(2) Yang-Mills theory in (minimal) Landau gauge are studied using lattice gauge theory. It is found that the results are qualitatively similar to the ones in three and four dimensions. The propagators and the Faddeev-Popov operator behave as expected from the Gribov-Zwanziger scenario. In addition, finite volume effects affecting these Green's functions are investigated systematically. The critical infrared exponents of the propagators, as proposed in calculations using stochastic quantization and Dyson-Schwinger equations, are confirmed quantitatively. For this purpose lattices of volume up to (42.7 fm)^2 have been used. 
0704.00723	Coupled electron and phonon transport in one-dimensional atomic  junctions	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:J. T. Lü, Jian-Sheng Wang	 Abstract: Employing the nonequilibrium Green's function method, we develop a fully quantum mechanical model to study the coupled electron-phonon transport in one-dimensional atomic junctions in the presence of a weak electron-phonon interaction. This model enables us to study the electronic and phononic transport on an equal footing. We derive the electrical and energy currents of the coupled electron-phonon system and the energy exchange between them. As an application, we study the heat dissipation in current carrying atomic junctions within the self-consistent Born approximation, which guarantees energy current conservation. We find that the inclusion of phonon transport is important in determining the heat dissipation and temperature change of the atomic junctions. 
0704.00724	Observation of Spin-Orbit Berry's Phase in Magnetoresistance of a  Two-Dimensional Hole Anti-dot System	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Ning Kang, Eisuke Abe, Yoshiaki Hashimoto, Yasuhiro Iye, Shingo Katsumoto	 Abstract: We report observation of spin-orbit Berry's phase in the Aharonov-Bohm (AB) type oscillation of weak field magnetoresistance in an anti-dot lattice (ADL) of a two-dimensional hole system. An AB-type oscillation is superposed on the commensurability peak, and the main peak in the Fourier transform is clearly split up due to variation in Berry's phase originating from the spin-orbit interaction. A simulation considering Berry's phase and the phase arising from the spin-orbit shift in the momentum space shows qualitative agreement with the experiment. 
0704.00725	On the dragging of light by a rotating medium	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:J. B. Goette, S. M. Barnett, M. Padgett	 Abstract: When light is passing through a rotating medium the optical polarisation is rotated. Recently it has been reasoned that this rotation applies also to the transmitted image (Padgett et al. 2006). We examine these two phenomena by extending an analysis of Player (1976) to general electromagnetic fields. We find that in this more general case the wave equation inside the rotating medium has to be amended by a term which is connected to the orbital angular momentum of the light. We show that optical spin and orbital angular momentum account respectively for the rotation of the polarisation and the rotation of the transmitted image. 
0704.00726	Long-range correlation and multifractality in Bach's Inventions pitches	Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)	Authors:G. R. Jafari, P. Pedram, L. Hedayatifar	 Abstract: We show that it can be considered some of Bach pitches series as a stochastic process with scaling behavior. Using multifractal deterend fluctuation analysis (MF-DFA) method, frequency series of Bach pitches have been analyzed. In this view we find same second moment exponents (after double profiling) in ranges (1.7-1.8) in his works. Comparing MF-DFA results of original series to those for shuffled and surrogate series we can distinguish multifractality due to long-range correlations and a broad probability density function. Finally we determine the scaling exponents and singularity spectrum. We conclude fat tail has more effect in its multifractality nature than long-range correlations. 
0704.00727	Circuit QED with a Flux Qubit Strongly Coupled to a Coplanar  Transmission Line Resonator	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:T. Lindstrom, C.H. Webster, A.Ya.Tzalenchuk, J.E. Healey, M. S. Colclough, C.M. Muirhead	 Abstract: We propose a scheme for circuit quantum electrodynamics with a superconducting flux-qubit coupled to a high-Q coplanar resonator. Assuming realistic circuit parameters we predict that it is possible to reach the strong coupling regime. Routes to metrological applications, such as single photon generation and quantum non-demolition measurements are discussed. 
0704.00728	Zero bias anomaly out of equilibrium	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:D. B. Gutman, Yuval Gefen, A. D. Mirlin	 Abstract: The non-equilibrium zero bias anomaly (ZBA) in the tunneling density of states of a diffusive metallic film is studied. An effective action describing virtual fluctuations out-of-equilibrium is derived. The singular behavior of the equilibrium ZBA is smoothed out by real processes of inelastic scattering. 
0704.00729	The First Law for Boosted Kaluza-Klein Black Holes	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:David Kastor, Sourya Ray, Jennie Traschen	 Abstract: We study the thermodynamics of Kaluza-Klein black holes with momentum along the compact dimension, but vanishing angular momentum. These black holes are stationary, but non-rotating. We derive the first law for these spacetimes and find that the parameter conjugate to variations in the length of the compact direction is an effective tension, which generally differs from the ADM tension. For the boosted black string, this effective tension is always positive, while the ADM tension is negative for large boost parameter. We also derive two Smarr formulas, one that follows from time translation invariance, and a second one that holds only in the case of exact translation symmetry in the compact dimension. Finally, we show that the `tension first law' derived by Traschen and Fox in the static case has the form of a thermodynamic Gibbs-Duhem relation and give its extension in the stationary, non-rotating case. 
0704.00730	Revisiting the Issues On Netflow Sample and Export Performance	Performance (cs.PF)	Authors:Hamed Haddadi, Raul Landa, Miguel Rio, Saleem Bhatti	 Abstract: The high volume of packets and packet rates of traffic on some router links makes it exceedingly difficult for routers to examine every packet in order to keep detailed statistics about the traffic which is traversing the router. Sampling is commonly applied on routers in order to limit the load incurred by the collection of information that the router has to undertake when evaluating flow information for monitoring purposes. The sampling process in nearly all cases is a deterministic process of choosing 1 in every N packets on a per-interface basis, and then forming the flow statistics based on the collected sampled statistics. Even though this sampling may not be significant for some statistics, such as packet rate, others can be severely distorted. However, it is important to consider the sampling techniques and their relative accuracy when applied to different traffic patterns. The main disadvantage of sampling is the loss of accuracy in the collected trace when compared to the original traffic stream. To date there has not been a detailed analysis of the impact of sampling at a router in various traffic profiles and flow criteria. In this paper, we assess the performance of the sampling process as used in NetFlow in detail, and we discuss some techniques for the compensation of loss of monitoring detail. 
0704.00731	The tensor part of the Skyrme energy density functional. I. Spherical  nuclei	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:T. Lesinski (IPNL), M. Bender (DAPNIA, Cenbg), K. Bennaceur (IPNL, Dapnia), T. Duguet (NSCL, Msu), J. Meyer (IPNL)	 Abstract: We perform a systematic study of the impact of the J^2 tensor term in the Skyrme energy functional on properties of spherical nuclei. In the Skyrme energy functional, the tensor terms originate both from zero-range central and tensor forces. We build a set of 36 parameterizations, which covers a wide range of the parameter space of the isoscalar and isovector tensor term coupling constants, with a fit protocol very similar to that of the successful SLy parameterizations. We analyze the impact of the tensor terms on a large variety of observables in spherical mean-field calculations, such as the spin-orbit splittings and single-particle spectra of doubly-magic nuclei, the evolution of spin-orbit splittings along chains of semi-magic nuclei, mass residuals of spherical nuclei, and known anomalies of charge radii. Our main conclusion is that the currently used central and spin-orbit parts of the Skyrme energy density functional are not flexible enough to allow for the presence of large tensor terms. 
0704.00732	Cosmological Singularities and a Conjectured Gravity/Coset  Correspondence	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Thibault Damour	 Abstract: We review the recently discovered connection between the Belinsky-Khalatnikov-Lifshitz-like ``chaotic'' structure of generic cosmological singularities in eleven-dimensional supergravity and the ``last'' hyperbolic Kac-Moody algebra E(10). This intriguing connection suggests the existence of a hidden ``correspondence'' between supergravity (or even M-theory) and null geodesic motion on the infinite-dimensional coset space K(E(10)). If true, this gravity/coset correspondence would offer a new view of the (quantum) fate of space (and matter) at cosmological singularities. 
0704.00733	Acceleration and localization of matter in a ring trap	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Yu. V. Bludov, V. V. Konotop	 Abstract: A toroidal trap combined with external time-dependent electric field can be used for implementing different dynamical regimes of matter waves. In particular, we show that dynamical and stochastic acceleration, localization and implementation of the Kapitza pendulum can be originated by means of proper choice of the external force. 
0704.00734	GRO J1655-40: from ASCA and XMM-Newton Observations	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Xiao-Ling Zhang, Shuang Nan Zhang, Gloria Sala, Jochen Greiner, Yuxin Feng, Yangsen Yao	 Abstract: We have analysed four ASCA observations (1994--1995, 1996--1997) and three XMM-Newton observations (2005) of this source, in all of which the source is in high/soft state. We modeled the continuum spectra with relativistic disk model kerrbb, estimated the spin of the central black hole, and constrained the spectral hardening factor f_col and the distance. If kerrbb model applies, for normally used value of f_col, the distance cannot be very small, and f_col changes with observations. 
0704.00735	The HELLAS2XMM survey. X. The bolometric output of luminous obscured  quasars: The Spitzer perspective	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:F. Pozzi, C. Vignali, A. Comastri, L. Pozzetti, M. Mignoli, C. Gruppioni, G. Zamorani, C. Lari, F. Civano, M. Brusa, F. Fiore, R. Maiolino, F. La Franca	 Abstract: Aims: We aim at estimating the spectral energy distributions (SEDs) and the physical parameters related to the black holes harbored in eight high X-ray-to-optical (F_X/F_R>10) obscured quasars at z>0.9 selected in the 2--10 keV band from the HELLAS2XMM survey. Methods: We use IRAC and MIPS 24 micron observations, along with optical and Ks-band photometry, to obtain the SEDs of the sources. The observed SEDs are modeled using a combination of an elliptical template and torus emission (using the phenomenological templates of Silva et al. 2004) for six sources associated with passive galaxies; for two point-like sources, the empirical SEDs of red quasars are adopted. The bolometric luminosities and the M_BH-L_K relation are used to provide an estimate of the masses and Eddington ratios of the black holes residing in these AGN. Results: All of our sources are detected in the IRAC and MIPS (at 24 micron) bands. The SED modeling described above is in good agreement with the observed near- and mid-infrared data. The derived bolometric luminosities are in the range ~10^45-10^47 erg s^-1, and the median 2--10 keV bolometric correction is ~25, consistent with the widely adopted value derived by Elvis et al. (1994). For the objects with elliptical-like profiles in the K_s band, we derive high stellar masses (0.8-6.2)X10^11 Mo, black hole masses in the range (0.2-2.5)X10^9 Mo, and Eddington ratios L/L_Edd<0.1, suggesting a low-accretion phase. 
0704.00736	$p$-Adic Haar multiresolution analysis	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:V. M. Shelkovich, M. Skopina	 Abstract: In this paper, the notion of {\em $p$-adic multiresolution analysis (MRA)} is introduced. We use a ``natural'' refinement equation whose solution (a refinable function) is the characteristic function of the unit disc. This equation reflects the fact that the characteristic function of the unit disc is the sum of $p$ characteristic functions of disjoint discs of radius $p^{-1}$. The case $p=2$ is studied in detail. Our MRA is a 2-adic analog of the real Haar MRA. But in contrast to the real setting, the refinable function generating our Haar MRA is periodic with period 1, which never holds for real refinable functions. This fact implies that there exist infinity many different 2-adic orthonormal wavelet bases in ${\cL}^2(\bQ_2)$ generated by the same Haar MRA. All of these bases are constructed. Since $p$-adic pseudo-differential operators are closely related to wavelet-type bases, our bases can be intensively used for applications. 
0704.00737	Jumping Through Loops: On Soft Terms from Large Volume Compactifications	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Marcus Berg, Michael Haack, Enrico Pajer	 Abstract: We subject the phenomenologically successful large volume scenario of hep-th/0502058 to a first consistency check in string theory. In particular, we consider whether the expansion of the string effective action is consistent in the presence of D-branes and O-planes. Due to the no-scale structure at tree-level, the scenario is surprisingly robust. We compute the modification of soft supersymmetry breaking terms, and find only subleading corrections. We also comment that for large-volume limits of toroidal orientifolds and fibered Calabi-Yau manifolds the corrections can be more important, and we discuss further checks that need to be performed. 
0704.00738	Driven activation versus thermal activation	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Patrick Ilg, Jean-Louis Barrat	 Abstract: Activated dynamics in a glassy system undergoing steady shear deformation is studied by numerical simulations. Our results show that the external driving force has a strong influence on the barrier crossing rate, even though the reaction coordinate is only weakly coupled to the nonequilibrium system. This "driven activation" can be quantified by introducing in the Arrhenius expression an effective temperature, which is close to the one determined from the fluctuation-dissipation relation. This conclusion is supported by analytical results for a simplified model system. 
0704.00739	Computation of Power Loss in Likelihood Ratio Tests for Probability  Densities Extended by Lehmann Alternatives	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Lucas Gallindo Martins Soares	 Abstract: We compute the loss of power in likelihood ratio tests when we test the original parameter of a probability density extended by the first Lehmann alternative. 
0704.00740	Vertical dynamics of disk galaxies in MOND	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Carlo Nipoti (1), Pasquale Londrillo (2), HongSheng Zhao (3), Luca Ciotti (1) ((1) Bologna Univ., (2) INAF - Bologna Astr. Obs. (3) SUPA, St. Andrews Univ.)	 Abstract: We investigate the possibility of discriminating between Modified Newtonian Dynamics (MOND) and Newtonian gravity with dark matter, by studying the vertical dynamics of disk galaxies. We consider models with the same circular velocity in the equatorial plane (purely baryonic disks in MOND and the same disks in Newtonian gravity embedded in spherical dark matter haloes), and we construct their intrinsic and projected kinematical fields by solving the Jeans equations under the assumption of a two-integral distribution function. We found that the vertical velocity dispersion of deep-MOND disks can be much larger than in the equivalent spherical Newtonian models. However, in the more realistic case of high-surface density disks this effect is significantly reduced, casting doubts on the possibility of discriminating between MOND and Newtonian gravity with dark matter by using current observations. 
0704.00741	Al'tshuler-Aronov correction to the conductivity of a large metallic  square network	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Christophe Texier, Gilles Montambaux	 Abstract: We consider the correction $\Delta\sigma_\mathrm{ee}$ due to electron-electron interaction to the conductivity of a weakly disordered metal (Al'tshuler-Aronov correction). The correction is related to the spectral determinant of the Laplace operator. The case of a large square metallic network is considered. The variation of $\Delta\sigma_\mathrm{ee}(L_T)$ as a function of the thermal length $L_T$ is found very similar to the variation of the weak localization $\Delta\sigma_\mathrm{WL}(L_\phi)$ as a function of the phase coherence length. Our result for $\Delta\sigma_\mathrm{ee}$ interpolates between the known 1d and 2d results, but the interaction parameter entering the expression of $\Delta\sigma_\mathrm{ee}$ keeps a 1d behaviour. Quite surprisingly, the result is very close to the 2d logarithmic behaviour already for $L_T\sim{a}/2$, where $a$ is the lattice parameter. 
0704.00742	Magnetoconductance oscillations in metallic rings and decoherence due to  electron-electron interaction	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Christophe Texier, Gilles Montambaux	 Abstract: We study weak localization in chains of metallic rings. We show than nonlocality of quantum transport can drastically affect the behaviour of the harmonics of magnetoconductance oscillations. Two different geometries are considered: the case of rings separated by long wires compared to the phase coherence length and the case of contacted rings. In a second part we discuss the role of decoherence due to electron-electron interaction in these two geometries. 
0704.00743	Diatomic molecule as a quantum entanglement switch	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Adam Rycerz	 Abstract: We investigate a pair entanglement of electrons in diatomic molecule, modeled as a correlated double quantum dot attached to the leads. The low-temperature properties are derived from the ground state obtained by utilizing the Rejec-Ramsak variational technique within the framework of EDABI method, which combines exact diagonalization with ab initio calculations. The results show, that single-particle basis renormalization modifies the entanglement-switch effectiveness significantly. We also found the entanglement signature of a competition between an extended Kondo and singlet phases. 
0704.00744	Quantifying social group evolution	Methodology (stat.ME)	Authors:Gergely Palla, Albert-Laszlo Barabasi, Tamas Vicsek	 Abstract: The rich set of interactions between individuals in the society results in complex community structure, capturing highly connected circles of friends, families, or professional cliques in a social network. Thanks to frequent changes in the activity and communication patterns of individuals, the associated social and communication network is subject to constant evolution. Our knowledge of the mechanisms governing the underlying community dynamics is limited, but is essential for a deeper understanding of the development and self-optimisation of the society as a whole. We have developed a new algorithm based on clique percolation, that allows, for the first time, to investigate the time dependence of overlapping communities on a large scale and as such, to uncover basic relationships characterising community evolution. Our focus is on networks capturing the collaboration between scientists and the calls between mobile phone users. We find that large groups persist longer if they are capable of dynamically altering their membership, suggesting that an ability to change the composition results in better adaptability. The behaviour of small groups displays the opposite tendency, the condition for stability being that their composition remains unchanged. We also show that the knowledge of the time commitment of the members to a given community can be used for estimating the community's lifetime. These findings offer a new view on the fundamental differences between the dynamics of small groups and large institutions. 
0704.00745	Weak and Strong Taylor methods for numerical solutions of stochastic  differential equations	Computational Finance (q-fin.CP)	Authors:Maria Siopacha, Josef Teichmann	 Abstract: We apply results of Malliavin-Thalmaier-Watanabe for strong and weak Taylor expansions of solutions of perturbed stochastic differential equations (SDEs). In particular, we work out weight expressions for the Taylor coefficients of the expansion. The results are applied to LIBOR market models in order to deal with the typical stochastic drift and with stochastic volatility. In contrast to other accurate methods like numerical schemes for the full SDE, we obtain easily tractable expressions for accurate pricing. In particular, we present an easily tractable alternative to ``freezing the drift'' in LIBOR market models, which has an accuracy similar to the full numerical scheme. Numerical examples underline the results. 
0704.00746	Finite bias visibility of the electronic Mach-Zehnder interferometer	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Preden Roulleau, F. Portier, D. C. Glattli, P. Roche, A. Cavanna, G. Gaini, U. Gennser, D. Mailly	 Abstract: We present an original statistical method to measure the visibility of interferences in an electronic Mach-Zehnder interferometer in the presence of low frequency fluctuations. The visibility presents a single side lobe structure shown to result from a gaussian phase averaging whose variance is quadratic with the bias. To reinforce our approach and validate our statistical method, the same experiment is also realized with a stable sample. It exhibits the same visibility behavior as the fluctuating one, indicating the intrinsic character of finite bias phase averaging. In both samples, the dilution of the impinging current reduces the variance of the gaussian distribution. 
0704.00747	A note on higher-order differential operations	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Branko J. Malesevic	 Abstract: In this paper we consider successive iterations of the first-order differential operations in space ${\bf R}^3.$ 
0704.00748	Experimental Challenges Involved in Searches for Axion-Like Particles  and Nonlinear Quantum Electrodynamic Effects by Sensitive Optical Techniques	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Christopher C. Davis, Joseph Harris, Robert W. Gammon, Igor I. Smolyaninov, Kyuman Cho	 Abstract: We discuss the experimental techniques used to date for measuring the changes in polarization state of a laser produced by a strong transverse magnetic field acting in a vacuum. We point out the likely artifacts that can arise in such experiments, with particular reference to the recent PVLAS observations and the previous findings of the BFRT collaboration. Our observations are based on studies with a photon-noise limited coherent homodyne interferometer with a polarization sensitivity of 2x10^-8 rad Hz^(1/2) mW^(-1/2). 
0704.00749	Binary Systems as Test-beds of Gravity Theories	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Thibault Damour	 Abstract: We review the general relativistic theory of the motion, and of the timing, of binary systems containing compact objects (neutron stars or black holes). Then we indicate the various ways one can use binary pulsar data to test the strong-field and/or radiative aspects of General Relativity, and of general classes of alternative theories of relativistic gravity. 
0704.00750	Some combinatorial aspects of differential operation compositions on  space $R^n$	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Branko J. Malesevic	 Abstract: In this paper we present a recurrent relation for counting meaningful compositions of the higher-order differential operations on the space $R^{n}$ (n=3,4,...) and extract the non-trivial compositions of order higher than two. 
0704.00751	Hyperbolicity in unbounded convex domains	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Filippo Bracci, Alberto Saracco	 Abstract: We provide several equivalent characterizations of Kobayashi hyperbolicity in unbounded convex domains in terms of peak and anti-peak functions at infinity, affine lines, Bergman metric and iteration theory. 
0704.00752	Actions for the Bosonic String with the Curved Worldsheet	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Davoud Kamani	 Abstract: At first we introduce an action for the string, which leads to a worldsheet that always is curved. For this action we study the Poincar\'e symmetry and the associated conserved currents. Then, a generalization of the above action, which contains an arbitrary function of the two-dimensional scalar curvature, will be introduced. An extra scalar field enables us to modify these actions to Weyl invariant models. 
0704.00753	Bianchi Type I Massive String Magnetized Barotropic Perfect Fluid  Cosmological Model in General Relativity	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Raj Bali, Umesh Kumar Pareek, Anirudh Pradhan	 Abstract: Bianchi type I massive string cosmological model with magnetic field of barotropic perfect fluid distribution through the techniques used by Latelier and Stachel, is investigated. To get the deterministic model of the universe, it is assumed that the universe is filled with barotropic perfect fluid distribution. The magnetic field is due to electric current produced along x-axis with infinite electrical conductivity. The behaviour of the model in presence and absence of magnetic field together with other physical aspects is further discussed. 
0704.00754	General Relativity Today	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Thibault Damour	 Abstract: After recalling the conceptual foundations and the basic structure of general relativity, we review some of its main modern developments (apart from cosmology) : (i) the post-Newtonian limit and weak-field tests in the solar system, (ii) strong gravitational fields and black holes, (iii) strong-field and radiative tests in binary pulsar observations, (iv) gravitational waves, (v) general relativity and quantum theory. 
0704.00755	A procedure for finding the k-th power of a matrix	General Mathematics (math.GM)	Authors:Branko Malesevic, Ivana Jovovic	 Abstract: We give a new procedure in Maple for finding the k-th power of a martix. The algorithm is based on the article [1]. 
0704.00756	The dynamical Casimir effect in braneworlds	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Ruth Durrer, Marcus Ruser	 Abstract: In braneworld cosmology the expanding Universe is realized as a brane moving through a warped higher-dimensional spacetime. Like a moving mirror causes the creation of photons out of vacuum fluctuations, a moving brane leads to graviton production. We show that, very generically, Kaluza-Klein (KK) particles scale like stiff matter with the expansion of the Universe and can therefore not represent the dark matter in a warped braneworld. We present results for the production of massless and KK gravitons for bouncing branes in five-dimensional anti de Sitter space. We find that for a realistic bounce the back reaction from the generated gravitons will be most likely relevant. This letter summarizes the main results and conclusions from numerical simulations which are presented in detail in a long paper [M.Ruser and R. Durrer, Phys. Rev. D 76, 104014 (2007), arXiv:0704.0790] 
0704.00757	Bounds on Negativity of Superpositions	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Yong-Cheng Ou, Heng Fan	 Abstract: The entanglement quantified by negativity of pure bipartite superposed states is studied. We show that if the entanglement is quantified by the concurrence two pure states of high fidelity to one another still have nearly the same entanglement. Furthermore this conclusion can be guaranteed by our obtained inequality, and the concurrence is shown to be a continuous function even in infinite dimensions. The bounds on the negativity of superposed states in terms of those of the states being superposed are obtained. These bounds can find useful applications in estimating the amount of the entanglement of a given pure state. 
0704.00758	Entangling Independent Photons by Time Measurement	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Matthaeus Halder, Alexios Beveratos, Nicolas Gisin, Valerio Scarani, Christoph Simon, Hugo Zbinden	 Abstract: A quantum system composed of two or more subsystems can be in an entangled state, i.e. a state in which the properties of the global system are well defined but the properties of each subsystem are not. Entanglement is at the heart of quantum physics, both for its conceptual foundations and for applications in information processing and quantum communication. Remarkably, entanglement can be "swapped": if one prepares two independent entangled pairs A1-A2 and B1-B2, a joint measurement on A1 and B1 (called a "Bell-State Measurement", BSM) has the effect of projecting A2 and B2 onto an entangled state, although these two particles have never interacted or shared any common past[1,2]. Experiments using twin photons produced by spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) have already demonstrated entanglement swapping[3-6], but here we present its first realization using continuous wave (CW) sources, as originally proposed[2]. The challenge was to achieve sufficiently sharp synchronization of the photons in the BSM. Using narrow-band filters, the coherence time of the photons that undergo the BSM is significantly increased, exceeding the temporal resolution of the detectors. Hence pulsed sources can be replaced by CW sources, which do not require any synchronization[6,7], allowing for the first time the use of completely autonomous sources. Our experiment exploits recent progress in the time precision of photon detectors, in the efficiency of photon pair production by SPDC with waveguides in nonlinear crystals[8], and in the stability of narrow-band filters. This approach is independent of the form of entanglement; we employed time-bin entangled photons[9] at telecom wavelengths. Our setup is robust against thermal or mechanical fluctuations in optical fibres thanks to cm-long coherence lengths. 
0704.00759	Energy conservation and Onsager's conjecture for the Euler equations	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:A. Cheskidov, P. Constantin, S. Friedlander, R. Shvydkoy	 Abstract: Onsager conjectured that weak solutions of the Euler equations for incompressible fluids in 3D conserve energy only if they have a certain minimal smoothness, (of order of 1/3 fractional derivatives) and that they dissipate energy if they are rougher. In this paper we prove that energy is conserved for velocities in the function space $B^{1/3}_{3,c(\NN)}$. We show that this space is sharp in a natural sense. We phrase the energy spectrum in terms of the Littlewood-Paley decomposition and show that the energy flux is controlled by local interactions. This locality is shown to hold also for the helicity flux; moreover, every weak solution of the Euler equations that belongs to $B^{2/3}_{3,c(\NN)}$ conserves helicity. In contrast, in two dimensions, the strong locality of the enstrophy holds only in the ultraviolet range. 
0704.00760	Search for Heavy, Long-Lived Particles that Decay to Photons at CDF II	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:A. Abulencia et al. (CDF Collaboration)	 Abstract: We present the first search for heavy, long-lived particles that decay to photons at a hadron collider. We use a sample of photon+jet+missing transverse energy events in p-pbar collisions at \sqrt{s}=1.96 TeV taken with the CDF II detector. Candidate events are selected based on the arrival time of the photon at the detector. Using an integrated luminosity of 570 pb-1 of collision data, we observe 2 events, consistent with the background estimate of 1.3+-0.7 events. While our search strategy does not rely on model-specific dynamics, we set cross section limits in a supersymmetric model with \tilde{\chi}_1^0->\gamma\gravitino and place the world-best 95% C.L. lower limit on the \tilde{\chi}_1^0 mass of 101 GeV/c^2 at \tau_{\tilde{\chi}_1^0} = 5 ns. 
0704.00761	Failure of the work-Hamiltonian connection for free energy calculations	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Jose M. G. Vilar, J. Miguel Rubi	 Abstract: Extensions of statistical mechanics are routinely being used to infer free energies from the work performed over single-molecule nonequilibrium trajectories. A key element of this approach is the ubiquitous expression dW/dt=\partial H(x,t)/ \partial t which connects the microscopic work W performed by a time-dependent force on the coordinate x with the corresponding Hamiltonian H(x,t) at time t. Here we show that this connection, as pivotal as it is, cannot be used to estimate free energy changes. We discuss the implications of this result for single-molecule experiments and atomistic molecular simulations and point out possible avenues to overcome these limitations. 
0704.00762	Dependence of the Critical Adsorption Point on Surface and Sequence  Disorders for Self-Avoiding Walks Interacting with a Planar Surface	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Jesse D. Ziebarth, Yongmei Wang, Alexey Polotsky, Mengbo Luo	 Abstract: The critical adsorption point (CAP) of self-avoiding walks (SAW) interacting with a planar surface with surface disorder or sequence disorder has been studied. We present theoretical equations, based on ones previously developed by Soteros and Whittington (J. Phys. A.: Math. Gen. 2004, 37, R279-R325), that describe the dependence of CAP on the disorders along with Monte Carlo simulation data that are in agreement with the equations. We also show simulation results that deviate from the equations when the approximations used in the theory break down. Such knowledge is the first step toward understanding the correlation of surface disorder and sequence disorder during polymer adsorption. 
0704.00763	Coherent control of atomic tunneling	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:John Martin, Daniel Braun	 Abstract: We study the tunneling of a two-level atom in a double well potential while the atom is coupled to a single electromagnetic field mode of a cavity. The coupling between internal and external degrees of freedom, due to the mechanical effect on the atom from photon emission into the cavity mode, can dramatically change the tunneling behavior. We predict that in general the tunneling process becomes quasiperiodic. In a certain regime of parameters a collapse and revival of the tunneling occurs. Accessing the internal degrees of freedom of the atom with a laser allows to coherently manipulate the atom position, and in particular to prepare the atom in one of the two wells. The effects described should be observable with atoms in an optical double well trap. 
0704.00764	Correlation functions and excitation spectrum of the frustrated  ferromagnetic spin-1/2 chain in an external magnetic field	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:T. Vekua, A. Honecker, H.-J. Mikeska, F. Heidrich-Meisner	 Abstract: Magnetic field effects on the one-dimensional frustrated ferromagnetic chain are studied by means of effective field theory approaches in combination with numerical calculations utilizing Lanczos diagonalization and the density matrix renormalization group method. The nature of the ground state is shown to change from a spin-density-wave region to a nematic-like one upon approaching the saturation magnetization. The excitation spectrum is analyzed and the behavior of the single spin-flip excitation gap is studied in detail, including the emergent finite-size corrections. 
0704.00765	Evidence of Spatially Inhomogeous Pairing on the Insulating Side of a  Disorder-Tuned Superconductor-Insulator Transition	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:K. H. Sarwa B. Tan, Kevin A. Parendo, A. M. Goldman	 Abstract: Measurements of transport properties of amorphous insulating indium oxide thin films have been interpreted as evidence of the presence of superconducting islands on the insulating side of a disorder-tuned superconductor-insulator transition. Although the films are not granular, the behavior is similar to that observed in granular films. The results support theoretical models in which the destruction of superconductivity by disorder produces spatially inhomogenous pairing with a spectral gap. 
0704.00766	Local de Broglie-Bohm Trajectories from Entangled Wavefunctions	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Michael Clover	 Abstract: We present a local interpretation of what is usually considered to be a nonlocal de Broglie-Bohm trajectory prescription for an entangled singlet state of massive particles. After reviewing various meanings of the term ``nonlocal'', we show that by using appropriately retarded wavefunctions (i.e., the locality loophole) this local model can violate Bell's inequality, without making any appeal to detector inefficiencies. We analyze a possible experimental configuration appropriate to massive two-particle singlet wavefunctions and find that as long as the particles are not ultra-relativistic, a locality loophole exists and Dirac wave(s) can propagate from Alice or Bob's changing magnetic field, through space, to the other detector, arriving before the particle and thereby allowing a local interpretation to the 2-particle de Broglie-Bohm trajectories. We also propose a physical effect due to changing magnetic fields in a Stern-Gerlach EPR setup that will throw away events and create a detector loophole in otherwise perfectly efficient detectors, an effect that is only significant for near-luminal particles that might otherwise close the locality loophole. 
0704.00767	Ground-based Microlensing Surveys	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Andrew Gould (OSU), B. Scott Gaudi (OSU), David P. Bennett (Notre Dame)	 Abstract: Microlensing is a proven extrasolar planet search method that has already yielded the detection of four exoplanets. These detections have changed our understanding of planet formation ``beyond the snowline'' by demonstrating that Neptune-mass planets with separations of several AU are common. Microlensing is sensitive to planets that are generally inaccessible to other methods, in particular cool planets at or beyond the snowline, very low-mass (i.e. terrestrial) planets, planets orbiting low-mass stars, free-floating planets, and even planets in external galaxies. Such planets can provide critical constraints on models of planet formation, and therefore the next generation of extrasolar planet searches should include an aggressive and well-funded microlensing component. When combined with the results from other complementary surveys, next generation microlensing surveys can yield an accurate and complete census of the frequency and properties of planets, and in particular low-mass terrestrial planets. 
0704.00768	The luminous infrared composite Seyfert 2 galaxy NGC 7679 through the [O  III] 5007 emission line	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:I. M. Yankulova (1), V. K. Golev (1), K. Jockers (2) ((1) Department of Astronomy, St Kliment Okhridski University of Sofia, Bulgaria (2) Max-Planck-Institut fur Sonnensystemforschung, Germany)	 Abstract: NGC 7679 is a nearby luminous infrared Sy2 galaxy in which starburst and AGN activities co-exist. The ionization structure is maintained by both the AGN power-law continuum and starburst. The galaxy is a bright X-ray source possessing a low X-ray column density N_H < 4 x 10^20 cm^{-2}. The Compton-thin nature of such unabsorbed objects infers that the simple formulation of the Unified model for SyGs is not applicable in their case. The main goal of this article is to investigate both gas distribution and ionization structure in the circumnuclear region of NGC 7679 in search for the presence of a hidden Sy1 nucleus, using the [O III] 5007 luminosity as a tracer of AGN activity. The [O III] 5007 image of the NGC 7679 shows elliptical isophotes extended along the PA ~ 80 deg in the direction to the counterpart galaxy NGC 7682. The maximum of ionization by the AGN power-law continuum traced by [O III] 5007/Halpha ratio is displaced by ~ 13 arcsec eastward from the nucleus. We conclude that the dust and gas in the high ionization direction has a direct view to the central AGN engine. This possibly results in dust/star-formation decay. A large fraction of the unabsorbed Compton-thin Sy2s with [O III] luminosity > 10^41 erg s^{-1} possesses a hidden AGN source (abridged). 
0704.00769	The Fermionic Density-functional at Feshbach Resonance	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Michael Seidl, Rajat K. Bhaduri	 Abstract: We consider a dilute gas of neutral unpolarized fermionic atoms at zero temperature.The atoms interact via a short range (tunable) attractive interaction. We demonstrate analytically a curious property of the gas at unitarity. Namely, the correlation energy of the gas, evaluated by second order perturbation theory, has the same density dependence as the first order exchange energy, and the two almost exactly cancel each other at Feshbach resonance irrespective of the shape of the potential, provided $(\mu r_s) >> 1$. Here $(\mu)^{-1}$ is the range of the two-body potential, and $r_s$ is defined through the number density $n=3/(4\pi r_s^3)$. The implications of this result for universality is discussed. 
0704.00770	Chemical Evolution	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Francesca Matteucci	 Abstract: In this series of lectures we first describe the basic ingredients of galactic chemical evolution and discuss both analytical and numerical models. Then we compare model results for the Milky Way, Dwarf Irregulars, Quasars and the Intra-Cluster- Medium with abundances derived from emission lines. These comparisons allow us to put strong constraints on the stellar nucleosynthesis and the mechanisms of galaxy formation. 
0704.00771	Suppression of 1/f noise in one-qubit systems	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Pekko Kuopanportti, Mikko Mottonen, Ville Bergholm, Olli-Pentti Saira, Jun Zhang, K. Birgitta Whaley	 Abstract: We investigate the generation of quantum operations for one-qubit systems under classical noise with 1/f^\alpha power spectrum, where 2>\alpha > 0. We present an efficient way to approximate the noise with a discrete multi-state Markovian fluctuator. With this method, the average temporal evolution of the qubit density matrix under 1/f^\alpha noise can be feasibly determined from recently derived deterministic master equations. We obtain qubit operations such as quantum memory and the NOT}gate to high fidelity by a gradient based optimization algorithm. For the NOT gate, the computed fidelities are qualitatively similar to those obtained earlier for random telegraph noise. In the case of quantum memory however, we observe a nonmonotonic dependency of the fidelity on the operation time, yielding a natural access rate of the memory. 
0704.00772	Stability of a colocated finite volume scheme for the incompressible  Navier-Stokes equations	Numerical Analysis (math.NA)	Authors:Sebastien Zimmermann	 Abstract: We introduce a finite volume scheme for the two-dimensional incompressible Navier-Stokes equations. We use a triangular mesh. The unknowns for the velocity and pressure are both piecewise constant (colocated scheme). We use a projection (fractional-step) method to deal with the incompressibility constraint. We prove that the differential operators in the Navier-Stokes equations and their discrete counterparts share similar properties. In particular, we state an inf-sup (Babuska-Brezzi) condition. We infer from it the stability of the scheme. 
0704.00773	Collective behavior of stock price movements in an emerging market	Statistical Finance (q-fin.ST)	Authors:Raj Kumar Pan, Sitabhra Sinha	 Abstract: To investigate the universality of the structure of interactions in different markets, we analyze the cross-correlation matrix C of stock price fluctuations in the National Stock Exchange (NSE) of India. We find that this emerging market exhibits strong correlations in the movement of stock prices compared to developed markets, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). This is shown to be due to the dominant influence of a common market mode on the stock prices. By comparison, interactions between related stocks, e.g., those belonging to the same business sector, are much weaker. This lack of distinct sector identity in emerging markets is explicitly shown by reconstructing the network of mutually interacting stocks. Spectral analysis of C for NSE reveals that, the few largest eigenvalues deviate from the bulk of the spectrum predicted by random matrix theory, but they are far fewer in number compared to, e.g., NYSE. We show this to be due to the relative weakness of intra-sector interactions between stocks, compared to the market mode, by modeling stock price dynamics with a two-factor model. Our results suggest that the emergence of an internal structure comprising multiple groups of strongly coupled components is a signature of market development. 
0704.00774	Galaxy morphologies and environment in the Abell 901/902 supercluster  from COMBO-17	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K. P. Lane, M. E. Gray, A. Aragon-Salamanca, C. Wolf, K. Meisenheimer	 Abstract: We present a morphological study of galaxies in the A901/902 supercluster from the COMBO-17 survey. A total of 570 galaxies with photometric redshifts in the range 0.155 < z_phot < 0.185 are visually classified by three independent classifiers to M_V=-18. These morphological classifications are compared to local galaxy density, distance from the nearest cluster centre, local surface mass density from weak lensing, and photometric classification. At high local galaxy densities, log(Sigma_10 /Mpc^2) > 1.5, a classical morphology-density relation is found. A correlation is also found between morphology and local projected surface mass density, but no trend is observed with distance to the nearest cluster. This supports the finding that local environment is more important to galaxy morphology than global cluster properties. The breakdown of the morphological catalogue by colour shows a dominance of blue galaxies in the galaxies displaying late-type morphologies and a corresponding dominance of red galaxies in the early-type population. Using the 17-band photometry from COMBO-17, we further split the supercluster red sequence into old passive galaxies and galaxies with young stars and dust according to the prescription of Wolf et al. (2005). We find that the dusty star-forming population describes an intermediate morphological group between late-type and early-type galaxies, supporting the hypothesis that field and group spiral galaxies are transformed into S0s and, perhaps, ellipticals during cluster infall. 
0704.00775	K_0-theory of n-potents in rings and algebras	K-Theory and Homology (math.KT)	Authors:Efton Park, Jody Trout	 Abstract: Let $n \geq 2$ be an integer. An \emph{$n$-potent} is an element $e$ of a ring $R$ such that $e^n = e$. In this paper, we study $n$-potents in matrices over $R$ and use them to construct an abelian group $K_0^n(R)$. If $A$ is a complex algebra, there is a group isomorphism $K_0^n(A) \cong \bigl(K_0(A)\bigr)^{n-1}$ for all $n \geq 2$. However, for algebras over cyclotomic fields, this is not true in general. We consider $K_0^n$ as a covariant functor, and show that it is also functorial for a generalization of homomorphism called an \emph{$n$-homomorphism}. 
0704.00776	Spin coupling in zigzag Wigner crystals	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:A. D. Klironomos, Julia S. Meyer, T. Hikihara, K. A. Matveev	 Abstract: We consider interacting electrons in a quantum wire in the case of a shallow confining potential and low electron density. In a certain range of densities, the electrons form a two-row (zigzag) Wigner crystal whose spin properties are determined by nearest and next-nearest neighbor exchange as well as by three- and four-particle ring exchange processes. The phase diagram of the resulting zigzag spin chain has regions of complete spin polarization and partial spin polarization in addition to a number of unpolarized phases, including antiferromagnetism and dimer order as well as a novel phase generated by the four-particle ring exchange. 
0704.00777	Decoupling Supergravity from the Superstring	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Michael B. Green, Hirosi Ooguri, John H. Schwarz	 Abstract: We consider the conditions necessary for obtaining perturbative maximal supergravity in d dimensions as a decoupling limit of type II superstring theory compactified on a (10 -- d)-torus. For dimensions d = 2 and d = 3 it is possible to define a limit in which the only finite-mass states are the 256 massless states of maximal supergravity. However, in dimensions d > 3 there are infinite towers of additional massless and finite-mass states. These correspond to Kaluza--Klein charges, wound strings, Kaluza--Klein monopoles or branes wrapping around cycles of the toroidal extra dimensions. We conclude that perturbative supergravity cannot be decoupled from string theory in dimensions d > 3. In particular, we conjecture that pure N = 8 supergravity in four dimensions is in the Swampland. 
0704.00778	Frobenius splitting and geometry of $G$-Schubert varieties	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Xuhua He, Jesper Funch Thomsen	 Abstract: Let $X$ be an equivariant embedding of a connected reductive group $G$ over an algebraically closed field $k$ of positive characteristic. Let $B$ denote a Borel subgroup of $G$. A $G$-Schubert variety in $X$ is a subvariety of the form $\diag(G) \cdot V$, where $V$ is a $B \times B$-orbit closure in $X$. In the case where $X$ is the wonderful compactification of a group of adjoint type, the $G$-Schubert varieties are the closures of Lusztig's $G$-stable pieces. We prove that $X$ admits a Frobenius splitting which is compatible with all $G$-Schubert varieties. Moreover, when $X$ is smooth, projective and toroidal, then any $G$-Schubert variety in $X$ admits a stable Frobenius splitting along an ample divisors. Although this indicates that $G$-Schubert varieties have nice singularities we present an example of a non-normal $G$-Schubert variety in the wonderful compactification of a group of type $G_2$. Finally we also extend the Frobenius splitting results to the more general class of $\mathcal R$-Schubert varieties. 
0704.00779	High Energy Variability Of Synchrotron-Self Compton Emitting Sources:  Why One Zone Models Do Not Work And How We Can Fix It	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Philip B. Graff, Markos Georganopoulos, Eric S. Perlman, Demosthenes Kazanas	 Abstract: With the anticipated launch of GLAST, the existing X-ray telescopes, and the enhanced capabilities of the new generation of TeV telescopes, developing tools for modeling the variability of high energy sources such as blazars is becoming a high priority. We point out the serious, innate problems one zone synchrotron-self Compton models have in simulating high energy variability. We then present the first steps toward a multi zone model where non-local, time delayed Synchrotron-self Compton electron energy losses are taken into account. By introducing only one additional parameter, the length of the system, our code can simulate variability properly at Compton dominated stages, a situation typical of flaring systems. As a first application, we were able to reproduce variability similar to that observed in the case of the puzzling `orphan' TeV flares that are not accompanied by a corresponding X-ray flare. 
0704.00780	Fusion of radioactive $^{132}$Sn with $^{64}$Ni	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:J. F. Liang, D. Shapira, J. R. Beene, C. J. Gross, R. L. Varner, A. Galindo-Uribarri, J. Gomez del Campo, P. A. Hausladen, P. E. Mueller, D. W. Stracener, H. Amro, J. J. Kolata, J. D. Bierman, A. L. Caraley, K. L. Jones, Y. Larochelle, W. Loveland, D. Peterson	 Abstract: Evaporation residue and fission cross sections of radioactive $^{132}$Sn on $^{64}$Ni were measured near the Coulomb barrier. A large sub-barrier fusion enhancement was observed. Coupled-channel calculations including inelastic excitation of the projectile and target, and neutron transfer are in good agreement with the measured fusion excitation function. When the change in nuclear size and shift in barrier height are accounted for, there is no extra fusion enhancement in $^{132}$Sn+$^{64}$Ni with respect to stable Sn+$^{64}$Ni. A systematic comparison of evaporation residue cross sections for the fusion of even $^{112-124}$Sn and $^{132}$Sn with $^{64}$Ni is presented. 
0704.00781	Tri-layer superlattices: A route to magnetoelectric multiferroics?	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Alison J. Hatt, Nicola A. Spaldin	 Abstract: We explore computationally the formation of tri-layer superlattices as an alternative approach for combining ferroelectricity with magnetism to form magnetoelectric multiferroics. We find that the contribution to the superlattice polarization from tri-layering is small compared to typical polarizations in conventionalferroelectrics, and the switchable ferroelectric component is negligible. In contrast, we show that epitaxial strain and ``negative pressure'' can yield large, switchable polarizations that are compatible with the coexistence of magnetism, even in materials with no active ferroelectric ions. 
0704.00782	Testing outer boundary treatments for the Einstein equations	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Oliver Rinne, Lee Lindblom, Mark A. Scheel	 Abstract: Various methods of treating outer boundaries in numerical relativity are compared using a simple test problem: a Schwarzschild black hole with an outgoing gravitational wave perturbation. Numerical solutions computed using different boundary treatments are compared to a `reference' numerical solution obtained by placing the outer boundary at a very large radius. For each boundary treatment, the full solutions including constraint violations and extracted gravitational waves are compared to those of the reference solution, thereby assessing the reflections caused by the artificial boundary. These tests use a first-order generalized harmonic formulation of the Einstein equations. Constraint-preserving boundary conditions for this system are reviewed, and an improved boundary condition on the gauge degrees of freedom is presented. Alternate boundary conditions evaluated here include freezing the incoming characteristic fields, Sommerfeld boundary conditions, and the constraint-preserving boundary conditions of Kreiss and Winicour. Rather different approaches to boundary treatments, such as sponge layers and spatial compactification, are also tested. Overall the best treatment found here combines boundary conditions that preserve the constraints, freeze the Newman-Penrose scalar Psi_0, and control gauge reflections. 
0704.00783	Stability of a finite volume scheme for the incompressible fluids	Numerical Analysis (math.NA)	Authors:Sebastien Zimmermann	 Abstract: We introduce a finite volume scheme for the two-dimensional incompressible Navier-Stokes equations. We use a triangular mesh. The unknowns for the velocity and pressure are respectively piecewise constant and affine. We use a projection method to deal with the incompressibility constraint. We show that the differential operators in the Navier-Stokes equations and their discrete counterparts share similar properties. In particular we state an inf-sup (Babuska-Brezzi) condition. Using these properties we infer the stability of the scheme. 
0704.00784	D-brane Instantons on the T^6/Z_3 orientifold	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Massimo Bianchi, Francesco Fucito, Jose F. Morales	 Abstract: We give a detailed microscopic derivation of gauge and stringy instanton generated superpotentials for gauge theories living on D3-branes at Z_3-orientifold singularities. Gauge instantons are generated by D(-1)-branes and lead to Affleck, Dine and Seiberg (ADS) like superpotentials in the effective N=1 gauge theories with three generations of bifundamental and anti/symmetric matter. Stringy instanton effects are generated by Euclidean ED3-branes wrapping four-cycles on T^6/\Z_3. They give rise to Majorana masses in one case and non-renormalizable superpotentials for the other cases. Finally we determine the conditions under which ADS like superpotentials are generated in N=1 gauge theories with adjoints, fundamentals, symmetric and antisymmetric chiral matter. 
0704.00785	Viscoplastic Properties and Tribological Behavior of Diamond-Like Carbon  Films Using Nanoindentation and Nanoscratch Tests	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Viviane Turq (LTDS), Julien Fontaine (LTDS), Jean-Luc Loubet (LTDS), Denis Mazuyer (LTDS)	 Abstract: Diamond-Like Carbon (DLC) films have been shown to demonstrate various tribological behaviors: in ultra-high vacuum (UHV), with either friction coefficients as low as 0.01 or less and very mild wear, or very high friction coefficients (>0.4) and drastic wear. These behaviors depend notably on gaseous environment, hydrogen content of the film [1], and on its viscoplastic properties [2,3]. A relation between superlow friction in UHV and viscoplasticity has indeed been established for a-C:H films and confirmed for a fluorinated sample (a-C:F:H). In this study, nanoindentation and nanoscratch tests were conducted in ambient air, using a nanoindentation apparatus, in order to evaluate tribological behaviors, as well as mechanical and viscoplastic properties of different amorphous carbon films. 
0704.00786	Implication of the D^0 Width Difference On CP-Violation in D^0-\bar D^0  Mixing	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Patricia Ball	 Abstract: Both BaBar and Belle have found evidence for a non-zero width difference in the $D^0$-$\bar D^0$ system. Although there is no direct experimental evidence for CP-violation in $D$ mixing (yet), we show that the measured values of the width difference $y\sim \Delta\Gamma$ already imply constraints on the CP-violating phase in $D$ mixing, which, if significantly different from zero, would be an unambiguous signal of new physics. 
0704.00787	Convergence of a finite volume scheme for the incompressible fluids	Numerical Analysis (math.NA)	Authors:Sebastien Zimmermann	 Abstract: We consider a finite volume scheme for the two-dimensional incompressible Navier-Stokes equations. We use a triangular mesh. The unknowns for the velocity and pressure are respectively piecewise constant and affine. We use a projection method to deal with the incompressibility constraint. In a former paper, the stability of the scheme has been proven. We infer from it its convergence. 
0704.00788	Optimal Synthesis of Multiple Algorithms	Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)	Authors:Kerry M. Soileau	 Abstract: In this paper we give a definition of "algorithm," "finite algorithm," "equivalent algorithms," and what it means for a single algorithm to dominate a set of algorithms. We define a derived algorithm which may have a smaller mean execution time than any of its component algorithms. We give an explicit expression for the mean execution time (when it exists) of the derived algorithm. We give several illustrative examples of derived algorithms with two component algorithms. We include mean execution time solutions for two-algorithm processors whose joint density of execution times are of several general forms. For the case in which the joint density for a two-algorithm processor is a step function, we give a maximum-likelihood estimation scheme with which to analyze empirical processing time data. 
0704.00789	New Close Binary Systems from the SDSS-I (Data Release Five) and the  Search for Magnetic White Dwarfs in Cataclysmic Variable Progenitor Systems	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nicole M. Silvestri (1), Mara P. Lemagie (1), Suzanne L. Hawley (1), Andrew A. West (2), Gary D. Schmidt (3), James Liebert (3), Paula Szkody (1), Lee Mannikko (1), Michael A. Wolfe (1), J. C. Barentine (4), Howard J. Brewington (4), Michael Harvanek (4), Jurik Krzesinski (5), Dan Long (4), Donald P. Schneider (6), Stephanie A. Snedden (4) ((1) University of Washington; (2) University of California, Berkeley; (3) University of Arizona and Steward Observatory; (4) Apache Point Observatory; (5) Mt. Suhora Observatory, Cracow Pedagogical University; (6) Penn State University)	 Abstract: We present the latest catalog of more than 1200 spectroscopically-selected close binary systems observed with the Sloan Digital Sky Survey through Data Release Five. We use the catalog to search for magnetic white dwarfs in cataclysmic variable progenitor systems. Given that approximately 25% of cataclysmic variables contain a magnetic white dwarf, and that our large sample of close binary systems should contain many progenitors of cataclysmic variables, it is quite surprising that we find only two potential magnetic white dwarfs in this sample. The candidate magnetic white dwarfs, if confirmed, would possess relatively low magnetic field strengths (B_WD < 10 MG) that are similar to those of intermediate-Polars but are much less than the average field strength of the current Polar population. Additional observations of these systems are required to definitively cast the white dwarfs as magnetic. Even if these two systems prove to be the first evidence of detached magnetic white dwarf + M dwarf binaries, there is still a large disparity between the properties of the presently known cataclysmic variable population and the presumed close binary progenitors. 
0704.00790	Dynamical Casimir effect for gravitons in bouncing braneworlds	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Marcus Ruser, Ruth Durrer	 Abstract: We consider a two-brane system in a five-dimensional anti-de Sitter spacetime. We study particle creation due to the motion of the physical brane which first approaches the second static brane (contraction) and then recedes from it(expansion). The spectrum and the energy density of the generated gravitons are calculated. We show that the massless gravitons have a blue spectrum and that their energy density satisfies the nucleosynthesis bound with very mild constraints on the parameters. We also show that the Kaluza-Klein modes cannot provide the dark matter in an anti-de-Sitter braneworld. However, for natural choices of parameters, backreaction from the Kaluza-Klein gravitons may well become important. The main findings of this work have been published in the form of a Letter [R. Durrer and M. Ruser, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 071601 (2007), arXiv:0704.0756]. 
0704.00791	Spectral analysis of Swift long GRBs with known redshift	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. I. Cabrera (1), C. Firmani (2,1), V. Avila-Reese (1), G. Ghirlanda (2), G. Ghisellini (2), L. Nava (2,3) ((1)U.N.A.M., (2)INAF-OAB, (3)Univ. Insubria)	 Abstract: We study the spectral and energetics properties of 47 long-duration gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) with known redshift, all of them detected by the Swift satellite. Due to the narrow energy range (15-150 keV) of the Swift-BAT detector, the spectral fitting is reliable only for fitting models with 2 or 3 parameters. As high uncertainty and correlation among the errors is expected, a careful analysis of the errors is necessary. We fit both the power law (PL, 2 parameters) and cut--off power law (CPL, 3 parameters) models to the time-integrated spectra of the 47 bursts, and present the corresponding parameters, their uncertainties, and the correlations among the uncertainties. The CPL model is reliable only for 29 bursts for which we estimate the nuf_nu peak energy Epk. For these GRBs, we calculate the energy fluence and the rest- frame isotropic-equivalent radiated energy, Eiso, as well as the propagated uncertainties and correlations among them. We explore the distribution of our homogeneous sample of GRBs on the rest-frame diagram E'pk vs Eiso. We confirm a significant correlation between these two quantities (the "Amati" relation) and we verify that, within the uncertainty limits, no outliers are present. We also fit the spectra to a Band model with the high energy power law index frozen to -2.3, obtaining a rather good agreement with the "Amati" relation of non-Swift GRBs. 
0704.00792	The Relationship Between Molecular Gas Tracers and Kennicutt-Schmidt  Laws	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Mark R. Krumholz, Todd A. Thompson (Princeton University)	 Abstract: We provide a model for how Kennicutt-Schmidt (KS) laws, which describe the correlation between star formation rate and gas surface or volume density, depend on the molecular line chosen to trace the gas. We show that, for lines that can be excited at low temperatures, the KS law depends on how the line critical density compares to the median density in a galaxy's star-forming molecular clouds. High critical density lines trace regions with similar physical properties across galaxy types, and this produces a linear correlation between line luminosity and star formation rate. Low critical density lines probe regions whose properties vary across galaxies, leading to a star formation rate that varies superlinearly with line luminosity. We show that a simple model in which molecular clouds are treated as isothermal and homogenous can quantitatively reproduce the observed correlations between galactic luminosities in far infrared and in the CO(1->0) and HCN(1->0) lines, and naturally explains why these correlations have different slopes. We predict that IR-line luminosity correlations should change slope for galaxies in which the median density is close to the line critical density. This prediction may be tested by observations of lines such as HCO^+(1->0) with intermediate critical densities, or by HCN(1->0) observations of intensely star-forming high redshift galaxies with very high densities. Recent observations by Gao et al. hint at just such a change in slope. We argue that deviations from linearity in the HCN(1->0)-IR correlation at high luminosity are consistent with the assumption of a constant star formation efficiency. 
0704.00793	Friedmann Equations and Thermodynamics of Apparent Horizons	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Yungui Gong, Anzhong Wang	 Abstract: With the help of a masslike function which has dimension of energy and equals to the Misner-Sharp mass at the apparent horizon, we show that the first law of thermodynamics of the apparent horizon $dE=T_AdS_A$ can be derived from the Friedmann equation in various theories of gravity, including the Einstein, Lovelock, nonlinear, and scalar-tensor theories. This result strongly suggests that the relationship between the first law of thermodynamics of the apparent horizon and the Friedmann equation is not just a simple coincidence, but rather a more profound physical connection. 
0704.00794	Constraints on the Interactions between Dark Matter and Baryons from the  X-ray Quantum Calorimetry Experiment	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Adrienne L. Erickcek (1), Paul J. Steinhardt (2), Dan McCammon (3), Patrick C. McGuire (4) ((1)Caltech, (2)Princeton University, (3)University of Wisconsin, (4)Washington University)	 Abstract: Although the rocket-based X-ray Quantum Calorimetry (XQC) experiment was designed for X-ray spectroscopy, the minimal shielding of its calorimeters, its low atmospheric overburden, and its low-threshold detectors make it among the most sensitive instruments for detecting or constraining strong interactions between dark matter particles and baryons. We use Monte Carlo simulations to obtain the precise limits the XQC experiment places on spin-independent interactions between dark matter and baryons, improving upon earlier analytical estimates. We find that the XQC experiment rules out a wide range of nucleon-scattering cross sections centered around one barn for dark matter particles with masses between 0.01 and 10^5 GeV. Our analysis also provides new constraints on cases where only a fraction of the dark matter strongly interacts with baryons. 
0704.00795	Heavy-Light Semileptonic Decays in Staggered Chiral Perturbation Theory	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:C. Aubin, C. Bernard	 Abstract: We calculate the form factors for the semileptonic decays of heavy-light pseudoscalar mesons in partially quenched staggered chiral perturbation theory (\schpt), working to leading order in $1/m_Q$, where $m_Q$ is the heavy quark mass. We take the light meson in the final state to be a pseudoscalar corresponding to the exact chiral symmetry of staggered quarks. The treatment assumes the validity of the standard prescription for representing the staggered ``fourth root trick'' within \schpt by insertions of factors of 1/4 for each sea quark loop. Our calculation is based on an existing partially quenched continuum chiral perturbation theory calculation with degenerate sea quarks by Becirevic, Prelovsek and Zupan, which we generalize to the staggered (and non-degenerate) case. As a by-product, we obtain the continuum partially quenched results with non-degenerate sea quarks. We analyze the effects of non-leading chiral terms, and find a relation among the coefficients governing the analytic valence mass dependence at this order. Our results are useful in analyzing lattice computations of form factors $B\to\pi$ and $D\to K$ when the light quarks are simulated with the staggered action. 
0704.00796	A density tensor hierarchy for open system dynamics: retrieving the  noise	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Stephen L. Adler	 Abstract: We introduce a density tensor hierarchy for open system dynamics, that recovers information about fluctuations lost in passing to the reduced density matrix. For the case of fluctuations arising from a classical probability distribution, the hierarchy is formed from expectations of products of pure state density matrix elements, and can be compactly summarized by a simple generating function. For the case of quantum fluctuations arising when a quantum system interacts with a quantum environment in an overall pure state, the corresponding hierarchy is defined as the environmental trace of products of system matrix elements of the full density matrix. Only the lowest member of the quantum noise hierarchy is directly experimentally measurable. The unit trace and idempotence properties of the pure state density matrix imply descent relations for the tensor hierarchies, that relate the order $n$ tensor, under contraction of appropriate pairs of tensor indices, to the order $n-1$ tensor. As examples to illustrate the classical probability distribution formalism, we consider a quantum system evolving by It\^o stochastic and by jump process Schr\"odinger equations. As examples to illustrate the corresponding trace formalism in the quantum fluctuation case, we consider collisional Brownian motion of an infinite mass Brownian particle, and the weak coupling Born-Markov master equation. In different specializations, the latter gives the hierarchies generalizing the quantum optical master equation and the Caldeira--Leggett master equation. As a further application of the density tensor, we contrast stochastic Schr\"odinger equations that reduce and that do not reduce the state vector, and discuss why a quantum system coupled to a quantum environment behaves like the latter. 
0704.00797	Scalar self-force on eccentric geodesics in Schwarzschild spacetime: a  time-domain computation	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Roland Haas	 Abstract: We calculate the self-force acting on a particle with scalar charge moving on a generic geodesic around a Schwarzschild black hole. This calculation requires an accurate computation of the retarded scalar field produced by the moving charge; this is done numerically with the help of a fourth-order convergent finite-difference scheme formulated in the time domain. The calculation also requires a regularization procedure, because the retarded field is singular on the particle's world line; this is handled mode-by-mode via the mode-sum regularization scheme first introduced by Barack and Ori. This paper presents the numerical method, various numerical tests, and a sample of results for mildly eccentric orbits as well as ``zoom-whirl'' orbits. 
0704.00798	Nonimmersions of RP^n implied by tmf, revisited	Algebraic Topology (math.AT)	Authors:Donald M. Davis, Mark Mahowald	 Abstract: In a 2002 paper, the authors and Bruner used the new spectrum tmf to obtain some new nonimmersions of real projective spaces. In this note, we complete/correct two oversights in that paper. The first is to note that in that paper a general nonimmersion result was stated which yielded new nonimmersions for RP^n with n as small as 48, and yet it was stated there that the first new result occurred when n=1536. Here we give a simple proof of those overlooked results. Secondly, we fill in a gap in the proof of the 2002 paper. There it was claimed that an axial map f must satisfy f^*(X)=X_1+X_2. We realized recently that this is not clear. However, here we show that it is true up multiplication by a unit in the appropriate ring, and so we retrieve all the nonimmersion results claimed in the original paper. Finally, we present a complete determination of tmf^{8*}(RP^\infty\times RP^\infty) and tmf^*(CP^\infty\times CP^\infty) in positive dimensions. 
0704.00799	Spin Evolution of Accreting Neutron Stars: Nonlinear Development of the  R-mode Instability	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ruxandra Bondarescu, Saul A. Teukolsky, Ira Wasserman (Cornell University)	 Abstract: The nonlinear saturation of the r-mode instability and its effects on the spin evolution of Low Mass X-ray Binaries (LMXBs) are modeled using the triplet of modes at the lowest parametric instability threshold. We solve numerically the coupled equations for the three mode amplitudes in conjunction with the spin and temperature evolution equations. We observe that very quickly the mode amplitudes settle into quasi-stationary states. Once these states are reached, the mode amplitudes can be found algebraically and the system of equations is reduced from eight to two equations: spin and temperature evolution. Eventually, the system may reach thermal equilibrium and either (1) undergo a cyclic evolution with a frequency change of at most 10%, (2) evolve toward a full equilibrium state in which the accretion torque balances the gravitational radiation emission, or (3) enter a thermogravitational runaway on a very long timescale of about $10^6$ years. Alternatively, a faster thermal runaway (timescale of about 100 years) may occur. The sources of damping considered are shear viscosity, hyperon bulk viscosity and boundary layer viscosity. We vary proprieties of the star such as the hyperon superfluid transition temperature T_c, the fraction of the star that is above the threshold for direct URCA reactions, and slippage factor, and map the different scenarios we obtain to ranges of these parameters. For all our bound evolutions the r-mode amplitude remains small $\sim 10^{-5}$. The spin frequency is limited by boundary layer viscosity to $\nu_{max} \sim 800 Hz [S_{ns}/(M_{1.4} R_6)]^{4/11} T_8^{-2/11}$. We find that for $\nu > 700$ Hz the r-mode instability would be active for about 1 in 1000 LMXBs and that only the gravitational waves from LMXBs in the local group of galaxies could be detected by advanced LIGO interferometers. 
0704.00800	Quantum Auctions	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Tad Hogg, Pavithra Harsha, Kay-Yut Chen	 Abstract: We present a quantum auction protocol using superpositions to represent bids and distributed search to identify the winner(s). Measuring the final quantum state gives the auction outcome while simultaneously destroying the superposition. Thus non-winning bids are never revealed. Participants can use entanglement to arrange for correlations among their bids, with the assurance that this entanglement is not observable by others. The protocol is useful for information hiding applications, such as partnership bidding with allocative externality or concerns about revealing bidding preferences. The protocol applies to a variety of auction types, e.g., first or second price, and to auctions involving either a single item or arbitrary bundles of items (i.e., combinatorial auctions). We analyze the game-theoretical behavior of the quantum protocol for the simple case of a sealed-bid quantum, and show how a suitably designed adiabatic search reduces the possibilities for bidders to game the auction. This design illustrates how incentive rather that computational constraints affect quantum algorithm choices. 
0704.00801	Fundamental solutions for a class of non-elliptic homogeneous  differential operators	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Brice Camus	 Abstract: We compute temperate fundamental solutions of homogeneous differential operators with real-principal type symbols. Via analytic continuation of meromorphic distributions, fundamental solutions for these non-elliptic operators can be constructed in terms of radial averages and invariant distributions on the unit sphere. 
0704.00802	Hybrid-ARQ in Multihop Networks with Opportunistic Relay Selection	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Caleb K. Lo, Robert W. Heath, Jr., Sriram Vishwanath	 Abstract: This paper develops a contention-based opportunistic feedback technique towards relay selection in a dense wireless network. This technique enables the forwarding of additional parity information from the selected relay to the destination. For a given network, the effects of varying key parameters such as the feedback probability are presented and discussed. A primary advantage of the proposed technique is that relay selection can be performed in a distributed way. Simulation results find its performance to closely match that of centralized schemes that utilize GPS information, unlike the proposed method. The proposed relay selection method is also found to achieve throughput gains over a point-to-point transmission strategy. 
0704.00803	Geometric Phase and Superconducting Flux Quantization	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Walter A. Simmons, Sandip S. Pakvasa	 Abstract: In a ring of s-wave superconducting material the magnetic flux is quantized in units of $\Phi_0 = \frac{h}{2e}$. It is well known from the theory of Josephson junctions that if the ring is interrupted with a piece of d-wave material, then the flux is quantized in one-half of those units due to a additional phase shift of $\pi$. We reinterpret this phenomenon in terms of geometric phase. We consider an idealized hetero-junction superconductor with pure s-wave and pure d-wave electron pairs. We find, for this idealized configuration, that the phase shift of $\pi$ follows from the discontinuity in the geometric phase and is thus a fundamental consequence of quantum mechanics. 
0704.00804	Equation-free implementation of statistical moment closures	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Francis J. Alexander, Gregory Johnson, Gregory L. Eyink, Ioannis G. Kevrekidis	 Abstract: We present a general numerical scheme for the practical implementation of statistical moment closures suitable for modeling complex, large-scale, nonlinear systems. Building on recently developed equation-free methods, this approach numerically integrates the closure dynamics, the equations of which may not even be available in closed form. Although closure dynamics introduce statistical assumptions of unknown validity, they can have significant computational advantages as they typically have fewer degrees of freedom and may be much less stiff than the original detailed model. The closure method can in principle be applied to a wide class of nonlinear problems, including strongly-coupled systems (either deterministic or stochastic) for which there may be no scale separation. We demonstrate the equation-free approach for implementing entropy-based Eyink-Levermore closures on a nonlinear stochastic partial differential equation. 
0704.00805	Opportunistic Relay Selection with Limited Feedback	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Caleb K. Lo, Robert W. Heath, Jr., Sriram Vishwanath	 Abstract: It has been shown that a decentralized relay selection protocol based on opportunistic feedback from the relays yields good throughput performance in dense wireless networks. This selection strategy supports a hybrid-ARQ transmission approach where relays forward parity information to the destination in the event of a decoding error. Such an approach, however, suffers a loss compared to centralized strategies that select relays with the best channel gain to the destination. This paper closes the performance gap by adding another level of channel feedback to the decentralized relay selection problem. It is demonstrated that only one additional bit of feedback is necessary for good throughput performance. The performance impact of varying key parameters such as the number of relays and the channel feedback threshold is discussed. An accompanying bit error rate analysis demonstrates the importance of relay selection. 
0704.00806	The Sloan Digital Sky Survey Quasar Catalog IV. Fifth Data Release	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Donald P. Schneider, Patrick B. Hall, Gordon T. Richards, Michael A. Strauss, Daniel E. Vanden Berk, Scott F. Anderson, W.N. Brandt, Xiaohui Fan, Sebastian Jester, Jim Gray, James E. Gunn, Mark U. SubbaRao, Anirudda R. Thakar, Chris Stoughton, Alexander S. Szalay, Brian Yanny, Donald G. York, Neta A. Bahcall, J. Barentine, Michael R. Blanton, Howard Brewington, J. Brinkmann, Robert J. Brunner, Francisco J. Castander, Istvan Csabai, Joshua A. Frieman, Masataka Fukugita, Michael Harvanek, David W. Hogg, Zeljko Ivezic, Stephen M. Kent, S. J. Kleinman, G. R. Knapp, Richard G. Kron, Jurek Krzesinski, Daniel C. Long, Robert H. Lupton, Atsuko Nitta, Jeffrey R. Pier, David H. Saxe, Yue Shen, Stephanie A. Snedden, David H. Weinberg, Jian Wu	 Abstract: We present the fourth edition of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) Quasar Catalog. The catalog contains 77,429 objects; this is an increase of over 30,000 entries since the previous edition. The catalog consists of the objects in the SDSS Fifth Data Release that have luminosities larger than M_i = -22.0 (in a cosmology with H_0 = 70 km/s/Mpc, Omega_M = 0.3, and Omega_Lambda = 0.7) have at least one emission line with FWHM larger than 1000 km/s, or have interesting/complex absorption features, are fainter than i=15.0, and have highly reliable redshifts. The area covered by the catalog is 5740 sq. deg. The quasar redshifts range from 0.08 to 5.41, with a median value of 1.48; the catalog includes 891 quasars at redshifts greater than four, of which 36 are at redshifts greater than five. Approximately half of the catalog quasars have i < 19; nearly all have i < 21. For each object the catalog presents positions accurate to better than 0.2 arcsec. rms per coordinate, five-band (ugriz) CCD-based photometry with typical accuracy of 0.03 mag, and information on the morphology and selection method. The catalog also contains basic radio, near-infrared, and X-ray emission properties of the quasars, when available, from other large-area surveys. The calibrated digital spectra cover the wavelength region 3800--9200A at a spectral resolution of ~2000. The spectra can be retrieved from the public database using the information provided in the catalog. The average SDSS colors of quasars as a function of redshift, derived from the catalog entries, are presented in tabular form. Approximately 96% of the objects in the catalog were discovered by the SDSS. 
0704.00807	Nuclear forces from chiral effective field theory	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:R. Machleidt	 Abstract: In this lecture series, I present the recent progress in our understanding of nuclear forces in terms of chiral effective field theory. 
0704.00808	On a Conjecture of EM Stein on the Hilbert Transform on Vector Fields	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Michael Lacey, Xiaochun Li	 Abstract: Let $ v$ be a smooth vector field on the plane, that is a map from the plane to the unit circle. We study sufficient conditions for the boundedness of the Hilbert transform \operatorname H_{v, \epsilon}f(x) := \text{p.v.}\int_{-\epsilon}^ \epsilon f(x-yv(x)) \frac{dy}y where $ \epsilon $ is a suitably chosen parameter, determined by the smoothness properties of the vector field. It is a conjecture, due to E.\thinspace M.\thinspace Stein, that if $ v$ is Lipschitz, there is a positive $ \epsilon $ for which the transform above is bounded on $ L ^{2}$. Our principal result gives a sufficient condition in terms of the boundedness of a maximal function associated to $ v$. This sufficient condition is that this new maximal function be bounded on some $ L ^{p}$, for some $ 1<p<2$. We show that the maximal function is bounded from $ L ^{2}$ to weak $ L ^{2}$ for all Lipschitz maximal function. The relationship between our results and other known sufficient conditions is explored. 
0704.00809	Wide Field Surveys and Astronomical Discovery Space	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A.Lawrence	 Abstract: I review the status of science with wide field surveys. For many decades surveys have been the backbone of astronomy, and the main engine of discovery, as we have mapped the sky at every possible wavelength. Surveys are an efficient use of resources. They are important as a fundamental resource; to map intrinsically large structures; to gain the necessary statistics to address some problems; and to find very rare objects. I summarise major recent wide field surveys - 2MASS, SDSS, 2dfGRS, and UKIDSS - and look at examples of the exciting science they have produced, covering the structure of the Milky Way, the measurement of cosmological parameters, the creation of a new field studying substellar objects, and the ionisation history of the Universe. I then look briefly at upcoming projects in the optical-IR survey arena - VISTA, PanSTARRS, WISE, and LSST. Finally I ask, now we have opened up essentially all wavelength windows, whether the exploration of survey discovery space is ended. I examine other possible axes of discovery space, and find them mostly to be too expensive to explore or otherwise unfruitful, with two exceptions : the first is the time axis, which we have only just begun to explore properly; and the second is the possibility of neutrino astrophysics. 
0704.00810	The Cosmic Foreground Explorer (COFE): A balloon-borne microwave  polarimeter to characterize polarized foregrounds	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Rodrigo Leonardi, Brian Williams, Marco Bersanelli, Ivan Ferreira, Philip M. Lubin, Peter R. Meinhold, Hugh O'Neill, Nathan C. Stebor, Fabrizio Villa, Thyrso Villela, Carlos A. Wuensche	 Abstract: The COsmic Foreground Explorer (COFE) is a balloon-borne microwave polarime- ter designed to measure the low-frequency and low-l characteristics of dominant diffuse polarized foregrounds. Short duration balloon flights from the Northern and Southern Hemispheres will allow the telescope to cover up to 80% of the sky with an expected sensitivity per pixel better than 100 $\mu K / deg^2$ from 10 GHz to 20 GHz. This is an important effort toward characterizing the polarized foregrounds for future CMB experiments, in particular the ones that aim to detect primordial gravity wave signatures in the CMB polarization angular power spectrum. 
0704.00811	Jet interactions in massive X-ray binaries	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Gustavo E. Romero	 Abstract: Massive X-ray binaries are formed by a compact object that accretes matter from the stellar wind of an early-type donor star. In some of these systems, called microquasars, relativistic jets are launched from the surroundings of the compact object. Such jets interact with the photon field of the companion star, the stellar wind, and, at large distances, with the interstellar medium. In this paper I will review the main results of such interactions with particular emphasis on the production of high-energy photons and neutrinos. The case of some specific systems, like LS I +61 303, will be discussed in some detail. Prospects for future observations at different wavelengths of this type of objects will be presented. 
0704.00812	The Na I D resonance lines in main sequence late-type stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Rodrigo F. Díaz, Carolina Cincunegui, Pablo J. D. Mauas (Instituto de Astronomía y Física del Espacio (IAFE). Buenos Aires, Argentina)	 Abstract: We study the sodium D lines (D1: 5895.92 \AA; D2: 5889.95 \AA) in late-type dwarf stars. The stars have spectral types between F6 and M5.5 (B-V between 0.457 and 1.807) and metallicity between [Fe/H] = -0.82 and 0.6. We obtained medium resolution echelle spectra using the 2.15-m telescope at the argentinian observatory CASLEO. The observations have been performed periodically since 1999. The spectra were calibrated in wavelength and in flux. A definition of the pseudo-continuum level is found for all our observations. We also define a continuum level for calibration purposes. The equivalent width of the D lines is computed in detail for all our spectra and related to the colour index (B-V) of the stars. When possible, we perform a careful comparison with previous studies. Finally, we construct a spectral index (R_D') as the ratio between the flux in the D lines, and the bolometric flux. We find that, once corrected for the photospheric contribution, this index can be used as a chromospheric activity indicator in stars with a high level of activity. Additionally, we find that combining some of our results, we obtain a method to calibrate in flux stars of unknown colour. 
0704.00813	Dynamics of Bose-Einstein Condensates	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Benjamin Schlein	 Abstract: We report on some recent results concerning the dynamics of Bose-Einstein condensates, obtained in a series of joint papers with L. Erdos and H.-T. Yau. Starting from many body quantum dynamics, we present a rigorous derivation of a cubic nonlinear Schroedinger equation known as the Gross-Pitaevskii equation for the time evolution of the condensate wave function. 
0704.00814	Photons as quasi-charged particles	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:K.-P. Marzlin, Juergen Appel, A. I. Lvovsky	 Abstract: The Schrodinger motion of a charged quantum particle in an electromagnetic potential can be simulated by the paraxial dynamics of photons propagating through a spatially inhomogeneous medium. The inhomogeneity induces geometric effects that generate an artificial vector potential to which signal photons are coupled. This phenomenon can be implemented with slow light propagating through an a gas of double-Lambda atoms in an electromagnetically-induced transparency setting with spatially varied control fields. It can lead to a reduced dispersion of signal photons and a topological phase shift of Aharonov-Bohm type. 
0704.00815	Exchange of quantum states between coupled oscillators	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:D. Portes Jr., H. Rodrigues, S. B. Duarte, B. Baseia	 Abstract: Exchange of quantum states between two interacting harmonic oscillator along their evolution time is discussed. It is analyzed the conditions for such exchange starting from a generic initial state and demonstrating that the effect occurs exactly only for the particular states C0|0>+Cn|N>, which includes the interesting qubits components |0>,|1>. It is also determined the relation between the coupling constant and characteristic frequencies of the oscillators to have the complete exchange. 
0704.00816	3-D Simulations of Ergospheric Disk Driven Poynting Jets	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Brian Punsly	 Abstract: This Letter reports on 3-dimensional simulations of Kerr black hole magnetospheres that obey the general relativistic equations of perfect magnetohydrodynamics (MHD). In particular, we study powerful Poynting flux dominated jets that are driven from dense gas in the equatorial plane in the ergosphere. The physics of which has been previously studied in the simplified limit of an ergopsheric disk. For high spin black holes, $a/M > 0.95$, the ergospheric disk is prominent in the 3-D simulations and is responsible for greatly enhanced Poynting flux emission. Any large scale poloidal magnetic flux that is trapped in the equatorial region leads to an enormous release of electromagnetic energy that dwarfs the jet energy produced by magnetic flux threading the event horizon. The implication is that magnetic flux threading the equatorial plane of the ergosphere is a likely prerequisite for the central engine of powerful FRII quasars. 
0704.00817	An S_3-symmetric Littlewood-Richardson rule	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Hugh Thomas, Alexander Yong	 Abstract: The classical Littlewood-Richardson coefficients C(lambda,mu,nu) carry a natural $S_3$ symmetry via permutation of the indices. Our "carton rule" for computing these numbers transparently and uniformly explains these six symmetries; previously formulated Littlewood-Richardson rules manifest at most three of the six. 
0704.00818	Two-scale structure of the electron dissipation region during  collisionless magnetic reconnection	Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)	Authors:M. A. Shay, J. F. Drake, M. Swisdak	 Abstract: Particle in cell (PIC) simulations of collisionless magnetic reconnection are presented that demonstrate that the electron dissipation region develops a distinct two-scale structure along the outflow direction. The length of the electron current layer is found to decrease with decreasing electron mass, approaching the ion inertial length for a proton-electron plasma. A surprise, however, is that the electrons form a high-velocity outflow jet that remains decoupled from the magnetic field and extends large distances downstream from the x-line. The rate of reconnection remains fast in very large systems, independent of boundary conditions and the mass of electrons. 
0704.00819	Position-Velocity Diagrams for the Maser Emission coming from a  Keplerian Ring	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Lucero Uscanga, Jorge Cantó, Alejandro C. Raga	 Abstract: We have studied the maser emission from a thin, planar, gaseous ring in Keplerian rotation around a central mass observed edge-on. The absorption coefficient within the ring is assumed to follow a power law dependence with the distance from the central mass as, k=k0r^{-q}. We have calculated position-velocity diagrams for the most intense maser features, for different values of the exponent q. We have found that, depending on the value of q, these diagrams can be qualitatively different. The most intense maser emission at a given velocity can either come mainly from regions close to the inner or outer edges of the amplifying ring or from the line perpendicular to the line of sight and passing through the central mass (as is commonly assumed). Particularly, when q>1 the position-velocity diagram is qualitatively similar to the one observed for the water maser emission in the nucleus of the galaxy NGC 4258. In the context of this simple model, we conclude that in this object the absorption coefficient depends on the radius of the amplifying ring as a decreasing function, in order to have significant emission coming from the inner edge of the ring. 
0704.00820	Coupling of whispering-gallery modes in size-mismatched microdisk  photonic molecules	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Svetlana V. Boriskina	 Abstract: Mechanisms of whispering-gallery (WG) modes coupling in microdisk photonic molecules (PMs) with slight and significant size mismatch are numerically investigated. The results reveal two different scenarios of modes interaction depending on the degree of this mismatch and offer new insight into how PM parameters can be tuned to control and modify WG-modes wavelengths and Q-factors. From a practical point of view, these findings offer a way to fabricate PM microlaser structures that exhibit low thresholds and directional emission, and at the same time are more tolerant to fabrication errors than previously explored coupled-cavity structures composed of identical microresonators. 
0704.00821	Spin solid phases of spin 1 and spin 3/2 antiferromagnets on a cubic  lattice	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Karol Gregor, Olexei I. Motrunich	 Abstract: We study spin S=1 and S=3/2 Heisenberg antiferromagnets on a cubic lattice focusing on spin solid states. Using Schwinger boson formulation for spins, we start in a U(1) spin liquid phase proximate to Neel phase and explore possible confining paramagnetic phases as we transition away from the spin liquid by the process of monopole condensation. Electromagnetic duality is used to rewrite the theory in terms of monopoles. For spin 1 we find several candidate phases of which the most natural one is a phase with spins organized into parallel Haldane chains. For spin 3/2 we find that the most natural phase has spins organized into parallel ladders. As a by-product, we also write a Landau theory of the ordering in two special classical frustrated XY models on the cubic lattice, one of which is the fully frustrated XY model. In a particular limit our approach maps to a dimer model with 2S dimers coming out of every site, and we find the same spin solid phases in this regime as well. 
0704.00822	Braided quantum field theories and their symmetries	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Yuya Sasai, Naoki Sasakura	 Abstract: Braided quantum field theories proposed by Oeckl can provide a framework for defining quantum field theories having Hopf algebra symmetries. In quantum field theories, symmetries lead to non-perturbative relations among correlation functions. We discuss Hopf algebra symmetries and such relations in braided quantum field theories. We give the four algebraic conditions between Hopf algebra symmetries and braided quantum field theories, which are required for the relations to hold. As concrete examples, we apply our discussions to the Poincare symmetries of two examples of noncommutative field theories. One is the effective quantum field theory of three-dimensional quantum gravity coupled with spinless particles given by Freidel and Livine, and the other is noncommutative field theory on Moyal plane. We also comment on quantum field theory on kappa-Minkowski spacetime. 
0704.00823	Chromospheric Flares	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Hugh S. Hudson	 Abstract: In this topical review I revisit the "chromospheric flare." This should currently be an outdated concept, because modern data seem to rule out the possiblity of a major flare happening independently in the chromosphere alone, but the chromosphere still plays a major observational role in many ways. It is the source of the bulk of a flare's radiant energy - in particular the visible/UV continuum radiation. It also provides tracers that guide us to the coronal source of the energy, even though we do not yet understand the propagation of the energy from its storage in the corona to its release in the chromosphere. The formation of chromospheric radiations during a flare presents several difficult and interesting physical problems. 
0704.00824	On the (3,N) Maurer-Cartan equation	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Mauricio Angel, Jaime Camacaro, Rafael Diaz	 Abstract: Deformations of the 3-differential of 3-differential graded algebras are controlled by the (3,N) Maurer-Cartan equation. We find explicit formulae for the coefficients appearing in that equation, introduce new geometric examples of N-differential graded algebras, and use these results to study N Lie algebroids. 
0704.00825	Electronic structure of kinetic energy driven superconductors in the  presence of bilayer splitting	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Yu Lan, Jihong Qin, Shiping Feng	 Abstract: Within the framework of the kinetic energy driven superconductivity, the electronic structure of bilayer cuprate superconductors in the superconducting state is studied. It is shown that the electron spectrum of bilayer cuprate superconductors is split into the bonding and antibonding components by the bilayer splitting, then the observed peak-dip-hump structure around the $[\pi,0]$ point is mainly caused by this bilayer splitting, with the superconducting peak being related to the antibonding component, and the hump being formed by the bonding component. The spectral weight increases with increasing the doping concentration. In analogy to the normal state case, both electron antibonding peak and bonding hump have the weak dispersions around the $[\pi,0]$ point. 
0704.00826	9.7 micrometer Silicate Absorption in a Damped Lyman-alpha Absorber at  z=0.52	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Varsha P. Kulkarni, Donald G. York, Giovanni Vladilo, Daniel E. Welty	 Abstract: We report a detection of the 9.7 micrometer silicate absorption feature in a damped Lyman-alpha (DLA) system at z_{abs} = 0.524 toward AO0235+164, using the Infrared Spectrograph (IRS) onboard the Spitzer Space Telescope. The feature shows a broad shallow profile over about 8-12 micrometers in the absorber rest frame and appears to be > 15 sigma significant in equivalent width. The feature is fit reasonably well by the silicate absorption profiles for laboratory amorphous olivine or diffuse Galactic interstellar clouds. To our knowledge, this is the first indication of 9.7 micrometer silicate absorption in a DLA. We discuss potential implications of this finding for the nature of the dust in quasar absorbers. Although the feature is relatively shallow (tau_{9.7} = 0.08-0.09), it is about 2 times deeper than expected from extrapolation of the tau_{9.7} vs. E(B-V) relation known for diffuse Galactic interstellar clouds. Further studies of the 9.7 micrometer silicate feature in quasar absorbers will open a new window on the dust in distant galaxies. 
0704.00827	Photometry of the Globular Cluster NGC 5466: Red Giants and Blue  Stragglers	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nassissie Fekadu, Eric L. Sandquist, Michael Bolte	 Abstract: We present wide-field BVI photometry for about 11,500 stars in the low-metallicity cluster NGC 5466. We have detected the red giant branch bump for the first time, although it is at least 0.2 mag fainter than expected relative to the turnoff. The number of red giants (relative to main sequence turnoff stars) is in excellent agreement with stellar models from the Yonsei-Yale and Teramo groups, and slightly high compared to Victoria-Regina models. This adds to evidence that an abnormally large ratio of red giant to main-sequence stars is not correlated with cluster metallicity. We discuss theoretical predictions from different research groups and find that the inclusion or exclusion of helium diffusion and strong limit Coulomb interactions may be partly responsible. We also examine indicators of dynamical history: the mass function exponent and the blue straggler frequency. NGC 5466 has a very shallow mass function, consistent with large mass loss and recently-discovered tidal tails. The blue straggler sample is significantly more centrally concentrated than the HB or RGB stars. We see no evidence of an upturn in the blue straggler frequency at large distances from the center. Dynamical friction timescales indicate that the stragglers should be more concentrated if the cluster's present density structure has existed for most of its history. NGC 5466 also has an unusually low central density compared to clusters of similar luminosity. In spite of this, the specific frequency of blue stragglers that puts it right on the frequency -- cluster M_V relation observed for other clusters. 
0704.00828	Vortex Molecular Crystal and Vortex Plastic Crystal States in Honeycomb  and Kagome Pinning Arrays	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:C. Reichhardt, C. J. Olson Reichhardt	 Abstract: Using numerical simulations, we investigate vortex configurations and pinning in superconductors with honeycomb and kagome pinning arrays. We find that a variety of novel vortex crystal states can be stabilized at integer and fractional matching field densities. The honeycomb and kagome pinning arrays produce considerably more pronounced commensuration peaks in the critical depinning force than triangular pinning arrays, and also cause additional peaks at noninteger matching fields where a portion of the vortices are located in the large interstitial regions of the pinning lattices. For the honeycomb pinning array, we find matching effects of equal strength at most fillings B/B_\phi=n/2 for n>2, where n is an integer, in agreement with recent experiments. For kagome pinning arrays, pronounced matching effects generally occur at B/B_\phi=n/3 for n>3, while for triangular pinning arrays pronounced matching effects are observed only at integer fillings B/B_\phi=n. At the noninteger matching field peaks in the honeycomb and kagome pinning arrays, the interstitial vortices are arranged in dimer, trimer, and higher order n-mer states that have an overall orientational order. We call these n-mer states "vortex molecular crystals" and "vortex plastic crystals" since they are similar to the states recently observed in colloidal molecular crystal systems. We argue that the vortex molecular crystals have properties in common with certain spin systems such as Ising and n-state Potts models. We show that kagome and honeycomb pinning arrays can be useful for increasing the critical current above that of purely triangular pinning arrays. 
0704.00829	Quark-Antiquark and Diquark Condensates in Vacuum in a 3D Two-Flavor  Gross-Neveu Model	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Bang-Rong Zhou (Graduate School of Chinese Academy of Sciences)	 Abstract: The effective potential analysis indicates that, in a 3D two-flavor Gross-Neveu model in vacuum, depending on less or bigger than the critical value 2/3 of $G_S/H_P$, where $G_S$ and $H_P$ are respectively the coupling constants of scalar quark-antiquark channel and pseudoscalar diquark channel, the system will have the ground state with pure diquark condensates or with pure quark-antiquark condensates, but no the one with coexistence of the two forms of condensates. The similarities and differences in the interplay between the quark-antiquark and the diquark condensates in vacuum in the 2D, 3D and 4D two-flavor four-fermion interaction models are summarized. 
0704.00830	Spin accumulation from the non-Abelian Aharonov-Bohm effect	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Qin Liu, Tianxing Ma, Shou-Cheng Zhang	 Abstract: Recently, it has been shown that the spin-orbit coupling (SOC) of the Dresselhaus type in $[110]$ quantum wells can be mathematically removed by a non-Abelian gauge transformation. In the presence of an additional uniform magnetic field, such a non-Abelian gauge flux leads to a spin accumulation at the edges of the sample, where the relative sign of the spin accumulation between the edges can be tuned by the sign of the Dresselhaus SOC constant. Our prediction can be tested by Kerr measurements within the available experimental sensitivities. 
0704.00831	On packet lengths and overhead for random linear coding over the erasure  channel	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Brooke Shrader, Anthony Ephremides	 Abstract: We assess the practicality of random network coding by illuminating the issue of overhead and considering it in conjunction with increasingly long packets sent over the erasure channel. We show that the transmission of increasingly long packets, consisting of either of an increasing number of symbols per packet or an increasing symbol alphabet size, results in a data rate approaching zero over the erasure channel. This result is due to an erasure probability that increases with packet length. Numerical results for a particular modulation scheme demonstrate a data rate of approximately zero for a large, but finite-length packet. Our results suggest a reduction in the performance gains offered by random network coding. 
0704.00832	Terrestrial and Habitable Planet Formation in Binary and Multi-star  Systems	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nader Haghighipour, Steinn Sigurdsson, Jack Lissauer, Sean Raymond	 Abstract: One of the most surprising discoveries of extrasolar planets is the detection of planets in moderately close binary star systems. The Jovian-type planets in the two binaries of Gamma Cephei and GJ 86 have brought to the forefront questions on the formation of giant planets and the possibility of the existence of smaller bodies in such dynamically complex environments. The diverse dynamical characteristics of these objects have made scientists wonder to what extent the current theories of planet formation can be applied to binaries and multiple star systems. At present, the sensitivity of the detection techniques does not allow routine discovery of Earth-sized bodies in binary systems. However, with the advancement of new techniques, and with the recent launch of CoRoT and the launch of Kepler in late 2008, the detection of more planets (possibly terrestrial-class objects) in such systems is on the horizon. Theoretical studies and numerical modeling of terrestrial and habitable planet formation are, therefore, necessary to gain fundamental insights into the prospects for life in such systems and have great strategic impact on NASA science and missions. 
0704.00833	Local well-posedness of nonlinear dispersive equations on modulation  spaces	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Árpád Bényi, Kasso A. Okoudjou	 Abstract: By using tools of time-frequency analysis, we obtain some improved local well-posedness results for the NLS, NLW and NLKG equations with Cauchy data in modulation spaces $M{p, 1}_{0,s}$. 
0704.00834	P-adic arithmetic coding	Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)	Authors:Anatoly Rodionov, Sergey Volkov	 Abstract: A new incremental algorithm for data compression is presented. For a sequence of input symbols algorithm incrementally constructs a p-adic integer number as an output. Decoding process starts with less significant part of a p-adic integer and incrementally reconstructs a sequence of input symbols. Algorithm is based on certain features of p-adic numbers and p-adic norm. p-adic coding algorithm may be considered as of generalization a popular compression technique - arithmetic coding algorithms. It is shown that for p = 2 the algorithm works as integer variant of arithmetic coding; for a special class of models it gives exactly the same codes as Huffman's algorithm, for another special model and a specific alphabet it gives Golomb-Rice codes. 
0704.00835	Compton X-ray and Gamma-ray Emission from Extended Radio Galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C.C. Cheung	 Abstract: The extended lobes of radio galaxies are examined as sources of X-ray and gamma-ray emission via inverse Compton scattering of 3K background photons. The Compton spectra of two exemplary examples, Fornax A and Centaurus A, are estimated using available radio measurements in the ~10's MHz - 10's GHz range. For average lobe magnetic fields of >~0.3-1 micro-G, the lobe spectra are predicted to extend into the soft gamma-rays making them likely detectable with the GLAST LAT. If detected, their large angular extents (~1 deg and 8 deg) will make it possible to ``image'' the radio lobes in gamma-rays. Similarly, this process operates in more distant radio galaxies and the possibility that such systems will be detected as unresolved gamma-ray sources with GLAST is briefly considered. 
0704.00836	A matroid-friendly basis for the quasisymmetric functions	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Kurt W. Luoto	 Abstract: A new Z-basis for the space of quasisymmetric functions (QSym, for short) is presented. It is shown to have nonnegative structure constants, and several interesting properties relative to the space of quasisymmetric functions associated to matroids by the Hopf algebra morphism (F) of Billera, Jia, and Reiner. In particular, for loopless matroids, this basis reflects the grading by matroid rank, as well as by the size of the ground set. It is shown that the morphism F is injective on the set of rank two matroids, and that decomposability of the quasisymmetric function of a rank two matroid mirrors the decomposability of its base polytope. An affirmative answer is given to the Hilbert basis question raised by Billera, Jia, and Reiner. 
0704.00837	Bremsstrahlung Radiation At a Vacuum Bubble Wall	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Jae-Weon Lee, Kyungsub Kim, Chul H. Lee, Ji-ho Jang	 Abstract: When charged particles collide with a vacuum bubble, they can radiate strong electromagnetic waves due to rapid deceleration. Owing to the energy loss of the particles by this bremsstrahlung radiation, there is a non-negligible damping pressure acting on the bubble wall even when thermal equilibrium is maintained. In the non-relativistic region, this pressure is proportional to the velocity of the wall and could have influenced the bubble dynamics in the early universe. 
0704.00838	Universal Source Coding for Monotonic and Fast Decaying Monotonic  Distributions	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Gil I. Shamir	 Abstract: We study universal compression of sequences generated by monotonic distributions. We show that for a monotonic distribution over an alphabet of size $k$, each probability parameter costs essentially $0.5 \log (n/k^3)$ bits, where $n$ is the coded sequence length, as long as $k = o(n^{1/3})$. Otherwise, for $k = O(n)$, the total average sequence redundancy is $O(n^{1/3+\epsilon})$ bits overall. We then show that there exists a sub-class of monotonic distributions over infinite alphabets for which redundancy of $O(n^{1/3+\epsilon})$ bits overall is still achievable. This class contains fast decaying distributions, including many distributions over the integers and geometric distributions. For some slower decays, including other distributions over the integers, redundancy of $o(n)$ bits overall is achievable, where a method to compute specific redundancy rates for such distributions is derived. The results are specifically true for finite entropy monotonic distributions. Finally, we study individual sequence redundancy behavior assuming a sequence is governed by a monotonic distribution. We show that for sequences whose empirical distributions are monotonic, individual redundancy bounds similar to those in the average case can be obtained. However, even if the monotonicity in the empirical distribution is violated, diminishing per symbol individual sequence redundancies with respect to the monotonic maximum likelihood description length may still be achievable. 
0704.00839	Moduli spaces of rational tropical curves	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Grigory Mikhalkin	 Abstract: This note is devoted to the definition of moduli spaces of rational tropical curves with n marked points. We show that this space has a structure of a smooth tropical variety of dimension n-3. We define the Deligne-Mumford compactification of this space and tropical $\psi$-class divisors. 
0704.00840	Associated production of the charged Higgs boson and single top quark at  the LHC	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Yao-Bei Liu, Jie-Fen Shen	 Abstract: The left-right twin Higgs(LRTH) model predicts the existence of the charged Higgs $\phi^{\pm}$. In this paper, we study the production of the charged Higgs boson $\phi^{-}$ with single top quark via the process $bg\to t\phi^{-}$ at the $CERN$ Large Hadron Collider(LHC). The numerical results show that the production cross section can reach the level of $10 pb$ in the reasonable parameter space of the LRTH model. We expect that, as long as it is not too heavy, the possible signatures of the heavy charged Higgs boson $\phi^{-}$ might be detected via the decay mode $\phi^{-}\to \bar{t}b$ at the LHC experiments. 
0704.00841	Difermion condensates in vacuum in 2-4D four-fermion interaction models	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Bang-Rong Zhou (Graduate School of Chinese Academy of Sciences)	 Abstract: Theoretical analysis of interplay between the condensates $<\bar{q}q>$ and $<qq>$ in vacuum is generally made by relativistic effective potentials in the mean field approximation in 2D, 3D and 4D models with two flavor and $N_c$ color massless fermions. It is found that in ground states of these models, interplay between the two condensates mainly depend on the ratio $G_S/H_S$ for 2D and 4D case or $G_S/H_P$ for 3D case, where $G_S$, $H_S$ and $H_P$ are respectively the coupling constants in a scalar $(\bar{q}q)$, a scalar $(qq)$ and a pseudoscalar $(qq)$ channel. In ground states of all the models, only pure $<\bar{q}q>$ condensates could exist if $G_S/H_S$ or $G_S/H_P$ is bigger than the critical value $2/N_c$, the ratio of the color numbers of the fermions entering into the condensates $<qq>$ and $<\bar{q}q>$. As $G_S/H_S$ or $G_S/H_P$ decreases to the region below $2/N_c$, differences of the models will manifest themselves. Depending on different models, and also on $N_c$ in 3D model, one will have or have no the coexistence phase of the two condensates, besides the pure $<qq>$ condensate phase. The $G_S-H_S$ (or $G_S-H_P$) phase diagrams in these models are given. The results also implicate a real constraint on two-flavor QCD-analogous NJL model. 
0704.00842	Oscillation bands of condensates on a ring: Beyond the mean field theory	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Chengguang Bao	 Abstract: The Hamiltonian of a N-boson system confined on a ring with zero spin and repulsive interaction is diagonalized. The excitation of a pair of p-wave-particles rotating reversely appears to be a basic mode. The fluctuation of many of these excited pairs provides a mechanism of oscillation, the states can be thereby classified into oscillation bands. The particle correlation is studied intuitively via the two-body densities. Bose-clustering originating from the symmetrization of wave functions is found, which leads to the appearance of 1-, 2-, and 3-cluster structures. The motion is divided into being collective and relative, this leads to the establishment of a relation between the very high vortex states and the low-lying states. 
0704.00843	Kadowaki-Woods Ratio of Strongly Coupled Fermi Liquids	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Takuya Okabe	 Abstract: On the basis of the Fermi liquid theory, the Kadowaki-Woods ratio $A/\gamma^2$ is evaluated by using a first principle band calculation for typical itinerant $d$ and $f$ electron systems. It is found as observed that the ratio for the $d$ electron systems is significantly smaller than the normal $f$ systems, even without considering their relatively weak correlation. The difference in the ratio value comes from different characters of the Fermi surfaces. By comparing Pd and USn$_3$ as typical cases, we discuss the importance of the Fermi surface dependence of the quasiparticle transport relaxation. 
0704.00844	Structure of Strange Dwarfs with Color Superconducting Core	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Masayuki Matsuzaki, Etsuchika Kobayashi (Fukuoka Univ. of Educ.)	 Abstract: We study effects of two-flavor color superconductivity on the structure of strange dwarfs, which are stellar objects with similar masses and radii with ordinary white dwarfs but stabilized by the strange quark matter core. We find that unpaired quark matter is a good approximation to the core of strange dwarfs. 
0704.00845	Information entropic superconducting microcooler	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:A. O. Niskanen, Y. Nakamura, J. P. Pekola	 Abstract: We consider a design for a cyclic microrefrigerator using a superconducting flux qubit. Adiabatic modulation of the flux combined with thermalization can be used to transfer energy from a lower temperature normal metal thin film resistor to another one at higher temperature. The frequency selectivity of photonic heat conduction is achieved by including the hot resistor as part of a high frequency LC resonator and the cold one as part of a low-frequency oscillator while keeping both circuits in the underdamped regime. We discuss the performance of the device in an experimentally realistic setting. This device illustrates the complementarity of information and thermodynamic entropy as the erasure of the quantum bit directly relates to the cooling of the resistor. 
0704.00846	PI degree parity in q-skew polynomial rings	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Heidi Haynal	 Abstract: For k a field of arbitrary characteristic, and R a k-algebra, we show that the PI degree of an iterated skew polynomial ring R[x_1;\tau_1,\delta_1]...b[x_n;\tau_n,\delta_n] agrees with the PI degree of R[x_1;\tau_1]...b[x_n;\tau_n] when each (\tau_i,\delta_i) satisfies a q_i-skew relation for q_i \in k^{\times} and extends to a higher q_i-skew \tau_i-derivation. We confirm the quantum Gel'fand-Kirillov conjecture for various quantized coordinate rings, and calculate their PI degrees. We extend these results to completely prime factor algebras. 
0704.00847	Semi-spheroidal Quantum Harmonic Oscillator	Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)	Authors:D. N. Poenaru, R. A. Gherghescu, A. V. Solov'yov, W. Greiner	 Abstract: A new single-particle shell model is derived by solving the Schr\"odinger equation for a semi-spheroidal potential well. Only the negative parity states of the $Z(z)$ component of the wave function are allowed, so that new magic numbers are obtained for oblate semi-spheroids, semi-sphere and prolate semi-spheroids. The semi-spherical magic numbers are identical with those obtained at the oblate spheroidal superdeformed shape: 2, 6, 14, 26, 44, 68, 100, 140, ... The superdeformed prolate magic numbers of the semi-spheroidal shape are identical with those obtained at the spherical shape of the spheroidal harmonic oscillator: 2, 8, 20, 40, 70, 112, 168 ... 
0704.00848	Growing Perfect Decagonal Quasicrystals by Local Rules	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Hyeong-Chai Jeong	 Abstract: A local growth algorithm for a decagonal quasicrystal is presented. We show that a perfect Penrose tiling (PPT) layer can be grown on a decapod tiling layer by a three dimensional (3D) local rule growth. Once a PPT layer begins to form on the upper layer, successive 2D PPT layers can be added on top resulting in a perfect decagonal quasicrystalline structure in bulk with a point defect only on the bottom surface layer. Our growth rule shows that an ideal quasicrystal structure can be constructed by a local growth algorithm in 3D, contrary to the necessity of non-local information for a 2D PPT growth. 
0704.00849	LRS Bianchi Type-V Viscous Fluid Universe With a Time Dependent  Cosmological Term $Λ$	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Anirudh Pradhan, J. P. Shahi, C. V. Singh	 Abstract: An LRS Bianchi type-V cosmological models representing a viscous fluid distribution with a time dependent cosmological term $\Lambda$ is investigated. To get a determinate solution, the viscosity coefficient of bulk viscous fluid is assumed to be a power function of mass density. It turns out that the cosmological term $\Lambda(t)$ is a decreasing function of time, which is consistent with recent observations of type Ia supernovae. Various physical and kinematic features of these models have also been explored. 
0704.00850	Density matrix elements and entanglement entropy for the spin-1/2 XXZ  chain at $Δ$=1/2	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Jun Sato, Masahiro Shiroishi	 Abstract: We have analytically obtained all the density matrix elements up to six lattice sites for the spin-1/2 Heisenberg XXZ chain at $\Delta=1/2$. We use the multiple integral formula of the correlation function for the massless XXZ chain derived by Jimbo and Miwa. As for the spin-spin correlation functions, we have newly obtained the fourth- and fifth-neighbour transverse correlation functions. We have calculated all the eigenvalues of the density matrix and analyze the eigenvalue-distribution. Using these results the exact values of the entanglement entropy for the reduced density matrix up six lattice sites have been obtained. We observe that our exact results agree quite well with the asymptotic formula predicted by the conformal field theory. 
0704.00851	Counting on rectangular areas	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Milan Janjic	 Abstract: In the first section of this paper we prove a theorem for the number of columns of a rectangular area that are identical to the given one. In the next section we apply this theorem to derive several combinatorial identities by counting specified subsets of a finite set. 
0704.00852	Bose-Einstein correlations of direct photons in Au+Au collisions at  $\sqrt{s_{NN}} = 200$ GeV	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:D.Peressounko (for the PHENIX Collaboration)	 Abstract: The current status of the analysis of direct photon Bose-Einstein correlations in Au+Au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{NN}}=200$ GeV done by the PHENIX collaboration is summarized. All possible sources of distortion of the two-photon correlation function are discussed and methods to control them in the PHENIX experiment are presented. 
0704.00853	Normalized Ricci flow on nonparabolic surfaces	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Hao Yin	 Abstract: This paper studies normalized Ricci flow on a nonparabolic surface, whose scalar curvature is asymptotically -1 in an integral sense. By a method initiated by R. Hamilton, the flow is shown to converge to a metric of constant scalar curvature -1. A relative estimate of Green's function is proved as a tool. 
0704.00854	Polarization properties of subwavelength hole arrays consisting of  rectangular holes	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Xi-Feng Ren, Pei Zhang, Guo-Ping Guo, Yun-Feng Huang, Zhi-Wei Wang, Guang-Can Guo	 Abstract: Influence of hole shape on extraordinary optical transmission was investigated using hole arrays consisting of rectangular holes with different aspect ratio. It was found that the transmission could be tuned continuously by rotating the hole array. Further more, a phase was generated in this process, and linear polarization states could be changed to elliptical polarization states. This phase was correlated with the aspect ratio of the holes. An intuitional model was presented to explain these results. 
0704.00855	Three dimensional cooling and trapping with a narrow line	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:Thierry Chaneliere (LAC), Ling Xiang He, Robin Kaiser (INLN), David Wilkowski (INLN)	 Abstract: The intercombination line of Strontium at 689nm is successfully used in laser cooling to reach the photon recoil limit with Doppler cooling in a magneto-optical traps (MOT). In this paper we present a systematic study of the loading efficiency of such a MOT. Comparing the experimental results to a simple model allows us to discuss the actual limitation of our apparatus. We also study in detail the final MOT regime emphasizing the role of gravity on the position, size and temperature along the vertical and horizontal directions. At large laser detuning, one finds an unusual situation where cooling and trapping occur in the presence of a high bias magnetic field. 
0704.00856	Approximate Selection Rule for Orbital Angular Momentum in Atomic  Radiative Transitions	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:I.B. Khriplovich, D.V. Matvienko	 Abstract: We demonstrate that radiative transitions with \Delta l = - 1 are strongly dominating for all values of n and l, except small region where l << n. 
0704.00857	Extrasolar scale change in Newton's Law from 5D `plain' R^2-gravity	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:I.L. Zhogin	 Abstract: Galactic rotation curves and lack of direct observations of Dark Matter may indicate that General Relativity is not valid (on galactic scale) and should be replaced with another theory. There is the only variant of Absolute Parallelism which solutions are free of arising singularities, if D=5 (there is no room for changes). This variant does not have a Lagrangian, nor match GR: an equation of `plain' R^2-gravity (ie without R-term) is in sight instead. Arranging an expanding O_4-symmetrical solution as the basis of 5D cosmological model, and probing a universal_function of mass distribution (along very-very long the extra dimension) to place into bi-Laplace equation (R^2 gravity), one can derive the Law of Gravitation: 1/r^2 transforms to 1/r with distance (not with acceleration). 
0704.00858	Lessons Learned from the deployment of a high-interaction honeypot	Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)	Authors:Eric Alata (LAAS), Vincent Nicomette (LAAS), Mohamed Kaâniche (LAAS), Marc Dacier (LAAS), Matthieu Herrb (LAAS)	 Abstract: This paper presents an experimental study and the lessons learned from the observation of the attackers when logged on a compromised machine. The results are based on a six months period during which a controlled experiment has been run with a high interaction honeypot. We correlate our findings with those obtained with a worldwide distributed system of lowinteraction honeypots. 
0704.00859	Transfinite diameter, Chebyshev constant and energy on locally compact  spaces	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Balint Farkas, Bela Nagy	 Abstract: We study the relationship between transfinite diameter, Chebyshev constant and Wiener energy in the abstract linear potential analytic setting pioneered by Choquet, Fuglede and Ohtsuka. It turns out that, whenever the potential theoretic kernel has the maximum principle, then all these quantities are equal for all compact sets. For continuous kernels even the converse statement is true: if the Chebyshev constant of any compact set coincides with its transfinite diameter, the kernel must satisfy the maximum principle. An abundance of examples is provided to show the sharpness of the results. 
0704.00860	Availability assessment of SunOS/Solaris Unix Systems based on Syslogd  and wtmpx logfiles : a case study	Performance (cs.PF)	Authors:Cristina Simache (LAAS), Mohamed Kaaniche (LAAS)	 Abstract: This paper presents a measurement-based availability assessment study using field data collected during a 4-year period from 373 SunOS/Solaris Unix workstations and servers interconnected through a local area network. We focus on the estimation of machine uptimes, downtimes and availability based on the identification of failures that caused total service loss. Data corresponds to syslogd event logs that contain a large amount of information about the normal activity of the studied systems as well as their behavior in the presence of failures. It is widely recognized that the information contained in such event logs might be incomplete or imperfect. The solution investigated in this paper to address this problem is based on the use of auxiliary sources of data obtained from wtmpx files maintained by the SunOS/Solaris Unix operating system. The results obtained suggest that the combined use of wtmpx and syslogd log files provides more complete information on the state of the target systems that is useful to provide availability estimations that better reflect reality. 
0704.00861	Empirical analysis and statistical modeling of attack processes based on  honeypots	Performance (cs.PF)	Authors:Mohamed Kaaniche (LAAS), Y. Deswarte (LAAS), Eric Alata (LAAS), Marc Dacier (SC), Vincent Nicomette (LAAS)	 Abstract: Honeypots are more and more used to collect data on malicious activities on the Internet and to better understand the strategies and techniques used by attackers to compromise target systems. Analysis and modeling methodologies are needed to support the characterization of attack processes based on the data collected from the honeypots. This paper presents some empirical analyses based on the data collected from the Leurr{\'e}.com honeypot platforms deployed on the Internet and presents some preliminary modeling studies aimed at fulfilling such objectives. 
0704.00862	The Low CO Content of the Extremely Metal Poor Galaxy I Zw 18	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Adam Leroy, John Cannon, Fabian Walter, Alberto Bolatto, Axel Weiss	 Abstract: We present sensitive molecular line observations of the metal-poor blue compact dwarf I Zw 18 obtained with the IRAM Plateau de Bure interferometer. These data constrain the CO J=1-0 luminosity within our 300 pc (FWHM) beam to be L_CO < 1 \times 10^5 K km s^-1 pc^2 (I_CO < 1 K km s^-1), an order of magnitude lower than previous limits. Although I Zw 18 is starbursting, it has a CO luminosity similar to or less than nearby low-mass irregulars (e.g. NGC 1569, the SMC, and NGC 6822). There is less CO in I Zw 18 relative to its B-band luminosity, HI mass, or star formation rate than in spiral or dwarf starburst galaxies (including the nearby dwarf starburst IC 10). Comparing the star formation rate to our CO upper limit reveals that unless molecular gas forms stars much more efficiently in I Zw 18 than in our own galaxy, it must have a very low CO-to-H_2 ratio, \sim 10^-2 times the Galactic value. We detect 3mm continuum emission, presumably due to thermal dust and free-free emission, towards the radio peak. 
0704.00863	A binary model for the UV-upturn of elliptical galaxies (MNRAS version)	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Z. Han, Ph. Podsiadlowski, A.E. Lynas-Gray	 Abstract: The discovery of a flux excess in the far-ultraviolet (UV) spectrum of elliptical galaxies was a major surprise in 1969. While it is now clear that this UV excess is caused by an old population of hot helium-burning stars without large hydrogen-rich envelopes, rather than young stars, their origin has remained a mystery. Here we show that these stars most likely lost their envelopes because of binary interactions, similar to the hot subdwarf population in our own Galaxy. We have developed an evolutionary population synthesis model for the far-UV excess of elliptical galaxies based on the binary model developed by Han et al (2002, 2003) for the formation of hot subdwarfs in our Galaxy. Despite its simplicity, it successfully reproduces most of the properties of elliptical galaxies with a UV excess: the range of observed UV excesses, both in $(1550-V)$ and $(2000-V)$, and their evolution with redshift. We also present colour-colour diagrams for use as diagnostic tools in the study of elliptical galaxies. The model has major implications for understanding the evolution of the UV excess and of elliptical galaxies in general. In particular, it implies that the UV excess is not a sign of age, as had been postulated previously, and predicts that it should not be strongly dependent on the metallicity of the population, but exists universally from dwarf ellipticals to giant ellipticals. 
0704.00864	Redshifts of the Long Gamma-Ray Bursts	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Z. Bagoly, I. Csabai, A. Meszaros, P. Meszaros, I. Horvath, L.G. Balazs, R. Vavrek	 Abstract: The low energy spectra of some gamma-ray bursts' show excess components beside the power-law dependence. The consequences of such a feature allows to estimate the gamma photometric redshift of the long gamma-ray bursts in the BATSE Catalog. There is good correlation between the measured optical and the estimated gamma photometric redshifts. The estimated redshift values for the long bright gamma-ray bursts are up to z=4, while for the the faint long bursts - which should be up to z=20 - the redshifts cannot be determined unambiguously with this method. The redshift distribution of all the gamma-ray bursts with known optical redshift agrees quite well with the BATSE based gamma photometric redshift distribution. 
0704.00865	An architecture-based dependability modeling framework using AADL	Performance (cs.PF)	Authors:Ana-Elena Rugina (LAAS), Karama Kanoun (LAAS), Mohamed Kaaniche (LAAS)	 Abstract: For efficiency reasons, the software system designers' will is to use an integrated set of methods and tools to describe specifications and designs, and also to perform analyses such as dependability, schedulability and performance. AADL (Architecture Analysis and Design Language) has proved to be efficient for software architecture modeling. In addition, AADL was designed to accommodate several types of analyses. This paper presents an iterative dependency-driven approach for dependability modeling using AADL. It is illustrated on a small example. This approach is part of a complete framework that allows the generation of dependability analysis and evaluation models from AADL models to support the analysis of software and system architectures, in critical application domains. 
0704.00866	A priori estimates for weak solutions of complex Monge-Ampère  equations	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:S.Benelkourchi, V.Guedj, A.Zeriahi	 Abstract: Let $X$ be a compact K\"ahler manifold and $\om$ a smooth closed form of bidegree $(1,1)$ which is nonnegative and big. We study the classes ${\mathcal E}_{\chi}(X,\om)$ of $\om$-plurisubharmonic functions of finite weighted Monge-Amp\`ere energy. When the weight $\chi$ has fast growth at infinity, the corresponding functions are close to be bounded. We show that if a positive Radon measure is suitably dominated by the Monge-Amp\`ere capacity, then it belongs to the range of the Monge-Amp\`ere operator on some class ${\mathcal E}_{\chi}(X,\om)$. This is done by establishing a priori estimates on the capacity of sublevel sets of the solutions. Our result extends U.Cegrell's and S.Kolodziej's results and puts them into a unifying frame. It also gives a simple proof of S.T.Yau's celebrated a priori ${\mathcal C}^0$-estimate. 
0704.00867	Density oscillation in highly flattened quantum elliptic rings and  tunable strong dipole radiation	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Shuping Situ, Yanzhang He, Chengguang Bao	 Abstract: A narrow elliptic ring containing an electron threaded by a magnetic field B is studied. When the ring is highly flattened, the increase of B would lead to a big energy gap between the ground and excited states, and therefore lead to a strong emission of dipole photons. The photon frequency can be tuned in a wide range by changing B and/or the shape of the ellipse. The particle density is found to oscillate from a pattern of distribution to another pattern back and forth against $B$. This is a new kind of Aharonov-Bohm oscillation originating from symmetry breaking and is different from the usual oscillation of persistent current. 
0704.00868	Effect of electron-electron interaction on the phonon-mediated spin  relaxation in quantum dots	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Juan I. Climente, Andrea Bertoni, Guido Goldoni, Massimo Rontani, Elisa Molinari	 Abstract: We estimate the spin relaxation rate due to spin-orbit coupling and acoustic phonon scattering in weakly-confined quantum dots with up to five interacting electrons. The Full Configuration Interaction approach is used to account for the inter-electron repulsion, and Rashba and Dresselhaus spin-orbit couplings are exactly diagonalized. We show that electron-electron interaction strongly affects spin-orbit admixture in the sample. Consequently, relaxation rates strongly depend on the number of carriers confined in the dot. We identify the mechanisms which may lead to improved spin stability in few electron (>2) quantum dots as compared to the usual one and two electron devices. Finally, we discuss recent experiments on triplet-singlet transitions in GaAs dots subject to external magnetic fields. Our simulations are in good agreement with the experimental findings, and support the interpretation of the observed spin relaxation as being due to spin-orbit coupling assisted by acoustic phonon emission. 
0704.00869	Connected Operators for the Totally Asymmetric Exclusion Process	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:O. Golinelli, K. Mallick (Cea Saclay, France)	 Abstract: We fully elucidate the structure of the hierarchy of the connected operators that commute with the Markov matrix of the Totally Asymmetric Exclusion Process (TASEP). We prove for the connected operators a combinatorial formula that was conjectured in a previous work. Our derivation is purely algebraic and relies on the algebra generated by the local jump operators involved in the TASEP. Keywords: Non-Equilibrium Statistical Mechanics, ASEP, Exact Results, Algebraic Bethe Ansatz. 
0704.00870	Proposal for an Enhanced Optical Cooling System Test in an Electron  Storage Ring	Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph)	Authors:E.G. Bessonov, M.V. Gorbunkov (Lebedev Phys. Inst. RAS, Moscow, Russia), A.A.Mikhailichenko (Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, U.S.A.)	 Abstract: We are proposing to test experimentally the new idea of Enhanced Optical Cooling (EOC) in an electron storage ring. This experiment will confirm new fundamental processes in beam physics and will demonstrate new unique possibilities with this cooling technique. It will open important applications of EOC in nuclear physics, elementary particle physics and in Light Sources (LS) based on high brightness electron and ion beams. 
0704.00871	The IDV source J1128+5925, a new candidate for annual modulation?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K. E. Gabanyi (1,2), N. Marchili (1), T. P. Krichbaum (1), S. Britzen (1), L. Fuhrmann (1), A. Witzel (1), J. A. Zensus (1), P. Muller (1), X. Liu (3), H. G. Song (3), J. L. Han (4), X. H. Sun (4) ((1) Max-Planck-Institut fur Radioastronomie, (2) Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Research Group for Physical Geodesy and Geodynamics, (3) Urumqi Observatory, the National Astronomical Observatories, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, (4) National Astronomical Observatories, Chinese Academy of Sciences)	 Abstract: Short time-scale radio variations of compact extragalactic radio sources, known as IntraDay Variability, can be explained in at least some sources by a source-extrinsic effect, in which the variations are interpreted as scintillation of radio waves caused by the turbulent ISM of the Milky Way. One of the most convincing observational arguments in favour of propagation-induced variability is the so called annual modulation of the characteristic variability time-scale, which is due to the orbital motion of the Earth. Data for the recently discovered and highly variable IDV source J1128+5925 are presented. We study the frequency and time dependence of the IDV in this compact quasar. We measure the characteristic variability time-scale of the IDV throughout the year, and analyze whether the observed changes in the variability time-scale are consistent with annual modulation. We monitored the flux density variability of J1128+5925 with dense time sampling between 2.7 and 10.45GHz with the 100m Effelsberg radio telescope of the MPIfR and with the 25m Urumqi radio telescope. From ten observing sessions, we determine the variability characteristics and time-scales. The observed pronounced changes of the variability time-scale of J1128+5925 are modelled with an anisotropic annual modulation model. The observed frequency dependence of the variation is in good agreement with the prediction from interstellar scintillation. Adopting a simple model for the annual modulation model and using also the frequency dependence of the IDV, we derive a lower limit to the distance of the scattering screen and an upper limit to the scintillating source size. The latter is found to be consistent with the measured core size from VLBI. 
0704.00872	Spectral perturbation bounds for selfadjoint operators	Spectral Theory (math.SP)	Authors:K. Veselic	 Abstract: We give general spectral and eigenvalue perturbation bounds for a selfadjoint operator perturbed in the sense of the pseudo-Friedrichs extension. We also give several generalisations of the aforementioned extension. The spectral bounds for finite eigenvalues are obtained by using analyticity and monotonicity properties (rather than variational principles) and they are general enough to include eigenvalues in gaps of the essential spectrum. 
0704.00873	Predicting the frequencies of diverse exo-planetary systems	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J.S. Greaves, D.A. Fischer, M.C. Wyatt, C.A. Beichman, G. Bryden	 Abstract: Extrasolar planetary systems range from hot Jupiters out to icy comet belts more distant than Pluto. We explain this diversity in a model where the mass of solids in the primordial circumstellar disk dictates the outcome. The star retains measures of the initial heavy-element (metal) abundance that can be used to map solid masses onto outcomes, and the frequencies of all classes are correctly predicted. The differing dependences on metallicity for forming massive planets and low-mass cometary bodies are also explained. By extrapolation, around two-thirds of stars have enough solids to form Earth-like planets, and a high rate is supported by the first detections of low-mass exo-planets. 
0704.00874	Higher ramification and varieties of secant divisors on the generic  curve	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Gavril Farkas	 Abstract: For a smooth projective curve, the cycles of e-secant k-planes are among the most studied objects in classical enumerative geometry and there are well-known formulas due to Castelnuovo, Cayley and MacDonald concerning them. Despite various attempts, surprisingly little is known about the enumerative validity of such formulas. The aim of this paper is to completely clarify this problem in the case of the generic curve C of given genus. Using degeneration techniques and a few facts about the birational geometry of moduli spaces of stable pointed curves we determine precisely under which conditions the cycle of e-secant k-planes in non-empty and we compute its dimension. We also precisely determine the dimension of the variety of linear series on C carrying e-secant k-planes. In a different direction, in the last part of the paper we study the distribution of ramification points of the powers of a line bundle on C having prescribed ramification at a given point. 
0704.00875	The concrete theory of numbers: initial numbers and wonderful properties  of numbers repunit	General Mathematics (math.GM)	Authors:Boris V. Tarasov	 Abstract: In this work initial numbers and repunit numbers have been studied. All numbers have been considered in a decimal notation. The problem of simplicity of initial numbers has been studied. Interesting properties of numbers repunit are proved: $gcd(R_a, R_b) = R_{gcd(a,b)}$; $R_{ab}/(R_aR_b)$ is an integer only if $gcd(a,b) = 1$, where $a\geq1$, $b\geq1$ are integers. Dividers of numbers repunit, are researched by a degree of prime number. 
0704.00876	Non-monotone convergence in the quadratic Wasserstein distance	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Walter Schachermayer, Uwe Schmock, Josef Teichmann	 Abstract: We give an easy counter-example to Problem 7.20 from C. Villani's book on mass transport: in general, the quadratic Wasserstein distance between $n$-fold normalized convolutions of two given measures fails to decrease monotonically. 
0704.00877	The bimodality of type Ia Supernovae	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:F. Mannucci, N. Panagia, M. Della Valle	 Abstract: We comment on the presence of a bimodality in the distribution of delay time between the formation of the progenitors and their explosion as type Ia SNe. Two "flavors" of such bimodality are present in the literature: a "weak" bimodality, in which type Ia SNe must explode from both young and old progenitors, and a "strong" bimodality, in which about half of the systems explode within 10^8 years from formation. The "weak" bimodality is observationally based on the dependence of the rates with the host galaxy SFR, while the "strong" one on the different rates in radio-loud and radio-quiet early-type galaxies. We review the evidence for these bimodalities. Finally, we estimate the fraction of SNe which are missed by optical and near-IR searches because of dust extinction in massive starbursts. 
0704.00878	Structural relaxation around substitutional Cr3+ in MgAl2O4	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Amélie Juhin (IMPMC), Georges Calas (IMPMC), Delphine Cabaret (IMPMC), Laurence Galoisy (IMPMC), Jean-Louis Hazemann	 Abstract: The structural environment of substitutional Cr3+ ion in MgAl2O4 spinel has been investigated by Cr K-edge Extended X-ray Absorption Fine Structure (EXAFS) and X-ray Absorption Near Edge Structure (XANES) spectroscopies. First-principles computations of the structural relaxation and of the XANES spectrum have been performed, with a good agreement to the experiment. The Cr-O distance is close to that in MgCr2O4, indicating a full relaxation of the first neighbors, and the second shell of Al atoms relaxes partially. These observations demonstrate that Vegard's law is not obeyed in the MgAl2O4-MgCr2O4 solid solution. Despite some angular site distortion, the local D3d symmetry of the B-site of the spinel structure is retained during the substitution of Cr for Al. Here, we show that the relaxation is accomodated by strain-induced bond buckling, with angular tilts of the Mg-centred tetrahedra around the Cr-centred octahedron. By contrast, there is no significant alteration of the angles between the edge-sharing octahedra, which build chains aligned along the three four-fold axes of the cubic structure. 
0704.00879	A Hierarchical Approach for Dependability Analysis of a Commercial  Cache-Based RAID Storage Architecture	Performance (cs.PF)	Authors:Mohamed Kaaniche (LAAS), Luigi Romano (UIUC), Zbigniew Kalbarczyk (UIUC), Ravishankar Iyer (UIUC), Rick Karcich (STORAGETEK)	 Abstract: We present a hierarchical simulation approach for the dependability analysis and evaluation of a highly available commercial cache-based RAID storage system. The archi-tecture is complex and includes several layers of overlap-ping error detection and recovery mechanisms. Three ab-straction levels have been developed to model the cache architecture, cache operations, and error detection and recovery mechanism. The impact of faults and errors oc-curring in the cache and in the disks is analyzed at each level of the hierarchy. A simulation submodel is associated with each abstraction level. The models have been devel-oped using DEPEND, a simulation-based environment for system-level dependability analysis, which provides facili-ties to inject faults into a functional behavior model, to simulate error detection and recovery mechanisms, and to evaluate quantitative measures. Several fault models are defined for each submodel to simulate cache component failures, disk failures, transmission errors, and data errors in the cache memory and in the disks. Some of the parame-ters characterizing fault injection in a given submodel cor-respond to probabilities evaluated from the simulation of the lower-level submodel. Based on the proposed method-ology, we evaluate and analyze 1) the system behavior un-der a real workload and high error rate (focusing on error bursts), 2) the coverage of the error detection mechanisms implemented in the system and the error latency distribu-tions, and 3) the accumulation of errors in the cache and in the disks. 
0704.00880	Stochastic action principle and maximum entropy	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Q. A. Wang (ISMANS), F. Tsobnang (ISMANS), S. Bangoup (ISMANS), F. Dzangue (ISMANS), A. Jeatsa (ISMANS), A. Le Méhauté (ISMANS)	 Abstract: A stochastic action principle for stochastic dynamics is revisited. We present first numerical diffusion experiments showing that the diffusion path probability depend exponentially on average Lagrangian action. This result is then used to derive an uncertainty measure defined in a way mimicking the heat or entropy in the first law of thermodynamics. It is shown that the path uncertainty (or path entropy) can be measured by the Shannon information and that the maximum entropy principle and the least action principle of classical mechanics can be unified into a concise form. It is argued that this action principle, hence the maximum entropy principle, is simply a consequence of the mechanical equilibrium condition extended to the case of stochastic dynamics. 
0704.00881	Constraining the Dark Energy Equation of State with Cosmic Voids	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jounghun Lee, Daeseong Park (Seoul Nat'l Univ.)	 Abstract: Our universe is observed to be accelerating due to the dominant dark energy with negative pressure. The dark energy equation of state (w) holds a key to understanding the ultimate fate of the universe. The cosmic voids behave like bubbles in the universe so that their shapes must be quite sensitive to the background cosmology. Assuming a flat universe and using the priors on the matter density parameter (Omega_m) and the dimensionless Hubble parameter (h), we demonstrate analytically that the ellipticity evolution of cosmic voids may be a sensitive probe of the dark energy equation of state. We also discuss the parameter degeneracy between w and Omega_m. 
0704.00882	A Dark Energy model combining DGP gravity and Chaplygin gas	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Matts Roos	 Abstract: The expansion of the Universe is accelerating, as testified by observations of supernovae of type Ia as a function of redshift. Explanations are of two types: modifications of Einstein gravity or new forms of energy, coined dark energy.The accelerated expansion is explained here by a combination of Dvali-Gabadadze-Porrati (DGP) model gravity and Chaplygin gas dark energy. Both models are characterized by a length scale L which may be the same. The continuity equation for the combined model is derived in flat geometry, and solved by numerical methods. The solution is shown to have the expected properties: at very small scales (a<<L) the energy density behaves as pressureless dust, at very large scales (a>>L) as a cosmological constant. The modifications to the DGP model and the Chaplygin gas model occur for values of a L. The results show an increase in the present dark energy density relative to the plain DGP model. 
0704.00883	Gauge-Higgs Unification and LHC/ILC	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Yutaka Hosotani	 Abstract: In the gauge-Higgs unification scenario the 4D Higgs field is identified with the zero mode of the extra-dimensional component of gauge potentials. The mass of the Higgs particle in the unification in the Randall-Sundrum warped spacetime is predicted to be in the range 100 GeV - 300 GeV. The WWZ gauge couplings remains almost universal as in the standard model, but substantial deviation results for the Higgs couplings. The WWH and ZZH couplings are suppressed by a factor \cos \theta_H from the values in the standard model, where \theta_H is the Yang-Mills AB phase along the fifth dimension. These can be tested at LHC and ILC. 
0704.00884	Extension theorems of Sakai type for separately holomorphic and  meromorphic functions	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Peter Pflug, Viet-Anh Nguyen	 Abstract: We first exhibit counterexamples to some open questions related to a theorem of Sakai. Then we establish an extension theorem of Sakai type for separately holomorphic/meromorphic functions. 
0704.00885	Uniform measures and countably additive measures	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Jan Pachl	 Abstract: Uniform measures are defined as the functionals on the space of bounded uniformly continuous functions that are continuous on bounded uniformly equicontinuous sets. If every cardinal has measure zero then every countably additive measure is a uniform measure. The functionals sequentially continuous on bounded uniformly equicontinuous sets are exactly uniform measures on the separable modification of the underlying uniform space. 
0704.00886	Lower bounds for the conductivities of correlated quantum systems	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Peter Jung, Achim Rosch	 Abstract: We show how one can obtain a lower bound for the electrical, spin or heat conductivity of correlated quantum systems described by Hamiltonians of the form H = H0 + g H1. Here H0 is an interacting Hamiltonian characterized by conservation laws which lead to an infinite conductivity for g=0. The small perturbation g H1, however, renders the conductivity finite at finite temperatures. For example, H0 could be a continuum field theory, where momentum is conserved, or an integrable one-dimensional model while H1 might describe the effects of weak disorder. In the limit g to 0, we derive lower bounds for the relevant conductivities and show how they can be improved systematically using the memory matrix formalism. Furthermore, we discuss various applications and investigate under what conditions our lower bound may become exact. 
0704.00887	Non-extensive thermodynamics of 1D systems with long-range interaction	Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)	Authors:S. S. Apostolov, Z. A. Mayzelis, O. V. Usatenko, V. A. Yampol'skii	 Abstract: A new approach to non-extensive thermodynamical systems with non-additive energy and entropy is proposed. The main idea of the paper is based on the statistical matching of the thermodynamical systems with the additive multi-step Markov chains. This general approach is applied to the Ising spin chain with long-range interaction between its elements. The asymptotical expressions for the energy and entropy of the system are derived for the limiting case of weak interaction. These thermodynamical quantities are found to be non-proportional to the length of the system (number of its particle). 
0704.00888	NMR evidence for a strong modulation of the Bose-Einstein Condensate in  BaCuSi$_2$O$_6$	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:S. Kramer (LCMI), R. Stern, M. Horvatic (LCMI), C. Berthier (LCMI), T. Kimura (LANL), I.R. Fisher	 Abstract: We present a $^{63,65}$Cu and $^{29}$Si NMR study of the quasi-2D coupled spin 1/2 dimer compound BaCuSi$_2$O$_6$ in the magnetic field range 13-26 T and at temperatures as low as 50 mK. NMR data in the gapped phase reveal that below 90 K different intra-dimer exchange couplings and different gaps ($\Delta_{\rm{B}}/\Delta_{\rm{A}}$ = 1.16) exist in every second plane along the c-axis, in addition to a planar incommensurate (IC) modulation. $^{29}$Si spectra in the field induced magnetic ordered phase reveal that close to the quantum critical point at $H_{\rm{c1}}$ = 23.35 T the average boson density $\bar{n}$ of the Bose-Einstein condensate is strongly modulated along the c-axis with a density ratio for every second plane $\bar{n}_{\rm{A}}/\bar{n}_{\rm{B}} \simeq 5$. An IC modulation of the local density is also present in each plane. This adds new constraints for the understanding of the 2D value $\phi$ = 1 of the critical exponent describing the phase boundary. 
0704.00889	Bibliometric statistical properties of the 100 largest European  universities: prevalent scaling rules in the science system	Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)	Authors:Anthony F. J. van Raan	 Abstract: For the 100 largest European universities we studied the statistical properties of bibliometric indicators related to research performance, field citation density and journal impact. We find a size-dependent cumulative advantage for the impact of universities in terms of total number of citations. In previous work a similar scaling rule was found at the level of research groups. Therefore we conjecture that this scaling rule is a prevalent property of the science system. We observe that lower performance universities have a larger size-dependent cumulative advantage for receiving citations than top-performance universities. We also find that for the lower-performance universities the fraction of not-cited publications decreases considerably with size. Generally, the higher the average journal impact of the publications of a university, the lower the number of not-cited publications. We find that the average research performance does not dilute with size. Large top-performance universities succeed in keeping a high performance over a broad range of activities. This most probably is an indication of their scientific attractive power. Next we find that particularly for the lower-performance universities the field citation density provides a strong cumulative advantage in citations per publication. The relation between number of citations and field citation density found in this study can be considered as a second basic scaling rule of the science system. Top-performance universities publish in journals with significantly higher journal impact as compared to the lower performance universities. We find a significant decrease of the fraction of self-citations with increasing research performance, average field citation density, and average journal impact. 
0704.00890	On the Origin of Asymmetries in Bilateral Supernova Remnants	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Orlando, F. Bocchino, F. Reale, G. Peres, O. Petruk	 Abstract: AIMS: We investigate whether the morphology of bilateral supernova remnants (BSNRs) observed in the radio band is determined mainly either by a non-uniform interstellar medium (ISM) or by a non-uniform ambient magnetic field. METHODS: We perform 3-D MHD simulations of a spherical SNR shock propagating through a magnetized ISM. Two cases of shock propagation are considered: 1) through a gradient of ambient density with a uniform ambient magnetic field; 2) through a homogeneous medium with a gradient of ambient magnetic field strength. From the simulations, we synthesize the synchrotron radio emission, making different assumptions about the details of acceleration and injection of relativistic electrons. RESULTS: We find that asymmetric BSNRs are produced if the line-of-sight is not aligned with the gradient of ambient plasma density or with the gradient of ambient magnetic field strength. We derive useful parameters to quantify the degree of asymmetry of the remnants that may provide a powerful diagnostic of the microphysics of strong shock waves through the comparison between models and observations. CONCLUSIONS: BSNRs with two radio limbs of different brightness can be explained if a gradient of ambient density or, most likely, of ambient magnetic field strength is perpendicular to the radio limbs. BSNRs with converging similar radio arcs can be explained if the gradient runs between the two arcs. 
0704.00891	Reactor Monitoring with Neutrinos	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:M. Cribier (APC)	 Abstract: The fundamental knowledge on neutrinos acquired in the recent years open the possibility of applied neutrino physics. Among it the automatic and non intrusive monitoring of nuclear reactor by its antineutrino signal could be very valuable to IAEA in charge of the control of nuclear power plants. Several efforts worldwide have already started. 
0704.00892	Nonstationary pattern in unsynchronizable complex networks	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:Xingang Wang, Meng Zhan, Ghuguang Guan, Choy Heng Lai	 Abstract: Pattern formation and evolution in unsynchronizable complex networks are investigated. Due to the asymmetric topology, the synchronous patterns formed in complex networks are irregular and nonstationary. For coupling strength immediately out of the synchronizable region, the typical phenomenon is the on-off intermittency of the system dynamics. The patterns appeared in this process are signatured by the coexistence of a giant cluster, which comprises most of the nodes, and a few number of small clusters. The pattern evolution is characterized by the giant cluster irregularly absorbs or emits the small clusters. As the coupling strength leaves away from the synchronization bifurcation point, the giant cluster is gradually dissolved into a number of small clusters, and the system dynamics is characterized by the integration and separation of the small clusters. Dynamical mechanisms and statistical properties of the nonstationary pattern evolution are analyzed and conducted, and some scalings are newly revealed. Remarkably, it is found that the few active nodes, which escape from the giant cluster with a high frequency, are independent of the coupling strength while are sensitive to the bifurcation types. We hope our findings about nonstationary pattern could give additional understandings to the dynamics of complex systems and have implications to some real problems where systems maintain their normal functions only in the unsynchronizable state. 
0704.00893	Topological phase for spin-orbit transformations on a laser beam	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:C.E.R. Souza, J.A.O. Huguenin, P. Milman, A.Z. Khoury	 Abstract: We investigate the topological phase associated with the double connectedness of the SO(3) representation in terms of maximally entangled states. An experimental demonstration is provided in the context of polarization and spatial mode transformations of a laser beam carrying orbital angular momentum. The topological phase is evidenced through interferometric measurements and a quantitative relationship between the concurrence and the fringes visibility is derived. Both the quantum and the classical regimes were investigated. 
0704.00894	The Solar Neighborhood. XIX. Discovery and Characterization of 33 New  Nearby White Dwarf Systems	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:John P. Subasavage (1), Todd J. Henry (1), P. Bergeron (2), P. Dufour (2), Nigel C. Hambly (3), Thomas D. Beaulieu (1) ((1) Georgia State University, (2) University of Montreal, (3) University of Edinburgh Royal Observatory)	 Abstract: We present spectra for 33 previously unclassified white dwarf systems brighter than V = 17 primarily in the southern hemisphere. Of these new systems, 26 are DA, 4 are DC, 2 are DZ, and 1 is DQ. We suspect three of these systems are unresolved double degenerates. We obtained VRI photometry for these 33 objects as well as for 23 known white dwarf systems without trigonometric parallaxes, also primarily in the southern hemisphere. For the 56 objects, we converted the photometry values to fluxes and fit them to a spectral energy distribution using the spectroscopy to determine which model to use (i.e. pure hydrogen, pure helium, or metal-rich helium), resulting in estimates of effective temperature and distance. Eight of the new and 12 known systems are estimated to be within the NStars and Catalogue of Nearby Stars (CNS) horizons of 25 pc, constituting a potential 18% increase in the nearby white dwarf sample. Trigonometric parallax determinations are underway via CTIOPI for these 20 systems. One of the DCs is cool so that it displays absorption in the near infrared. Using the distance determined via trigonometric parallax, we are able to constrain the model-dependent physical parameters and find that this object is most likely a mixed H/He atmosphere white dwarf similar to other cool white dwarfs identified in recent years with significant absorption in the infrared due to collision-induced absorptions by molecular hydrogen. 
0704.00895	Gorenstein locus of minuscule Schubert varieties	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Nicolas Perrin	 Abstract: In this article, we describe explicitely the Gorenstein locus of all minuscule Schubert varieties. This proves a special case of a conjecture of A. Woo and A. Yong (see math.AG/0603273) on the Gorenstein locus of Schubert varieties. 
0704.00896	Model C critical dynamics of random anisotropy magnets	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:M. Dudka, R. Folk, Yu. Holovatch, G. Moser	 Abstract: We study the relaxational critical dynamics of the three-dimensional random anisotropy magnets with the non-conserved n-component order parameter coupled to a conserved scalar density. In the random anisotropy magnets the structural disorder is present in a form of local quenched anisotropy axes of random orientation. When the anisotropy axes are randomly distributed along the edges of the n-dimensional hypercube, asymptotical dynamical critical properties coincide with those of the random-site Ising model. However structural disorder gives rise to considerable effects for non-asymptotic critical dynamics. We investigate this phenomenon by a field-theoretical renormalization group analysis in the two-loop order. We study critical slowing down and obtain quantitative estimates for the effective and asymptotic critical exponents of the order parameter and scalar density. The results predict complex scenarios for the effective critical exponent approaching an asymptotic regime. 
0704.00897	A unified approach to the theory of separately holomorphic mappings	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Viet-Anh Nguyen	 Abstract: We extend the theory of separately holomorphic mappings between complex analytic spaces. Our method is based on Poletsky theory of discs, Rosay Theorem on holomorphic discs and our recent joint-work with Pflug on cross theorems in dimension 1. It also relies on our new technique of conformal mappings and a generalization of Siciak's relative extremal function. Our approach illustrates the unified character: ``From local informations to global extensions". Moreover, it avoids systematically the use of the classical method of doubly orthogonal bases of Bergman type. 
0704.00898	Higher spin algebras as higher symmetries	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Xavier Bekaert	 Abstract: The exhaustive study of the rigid symmetries of arbitrary free field theories is motivated, along several lines, as a preliminary step in the completion of the higher-spin interaction problem in full generality. Some results for the simplest example (a scalar field) are reviewed and commented along these lines. 
0704.00899	CalFUSE v3: A Data-Reduction Pipeline for the Far Ultraviolet  Spectroscopic Explorer	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:W. V. Dixon (1), D. J. Sahnow (1), P. E. Barrett (2 and 3), T. Civeit (1 and 4), J. Dupuis (1 and 5), A. W. Fullerton (1 and 6), B. Godard (1 and 7), J. C. Hsu (2 and 8), M. E. Kaiser (1), J. W. Kruk (1), S. Lacour (1 and 9), D. J. Lindler (10), D. Massa (11), R. D. Robinson (1 and 8), M. L. Romelfanger (1), P. Sonnentrucker (1) ((1) Johns Hopkins University, (2) Space Telescope Science Institute, (3) U.S. Naval Observatory, (4) Centre National d'Etudes Spatiales, (5) Canadian Space Agency, (6) University of Victoria, (7) Institut d'Astrophysique de Paris, (8) Retired, (9) Sydney University, (10) Sigma Space Corporation, (11) SGT, Inc.)	 Abstract: Since its launch in 1999, the Far Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer (FUSE) has made over 4600 observations of some 2500 individual targets. The data are reduced by the Principal Investigator team at the Johns Hopkins University and archived at the Multimission Archive at Space Telescope (MAST). The data-reduction software package, called CalFUSE, has evolved considerably over the lifetime of the mission. The entire FUSE data set has recently been reprocessed with CalFUSE v3.2, the latest version of this software. This paper describes CalFUSE v3.2, the instrument calibrations upon which it is based, and the format of the resulting calibrated data files. 
0704.00900	Voltage-Current curves for small Josephson junction arrays	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Benoit Doucot, Lev B. Ioffe	 Abstract: We compute the current voltage characteristic of a chain of identical Josephson circuits characterized by a large ratio of Josephson to charging energy that are envisioned as the implementation of topologically protected qubits. We show that in the limit of small coupling to the environment it exhibits a non-monotonous behavior with a maximum voltage followed by a parametrically large region where $V\propto 1/I$. We argue that its experimental measurement provides a direct probe of the amplitude of the quantum transitions in constituting Josephson circuits and thus allows their full characterization. 
0704.00901	The density of critical percolation clusters touching the boundaries of  strips and squares	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Jacob J. H. Simmons, Peter Kleban, Kevin Dahlberg, Robert M. Ziff	 Abstract: We consider the density of two-dimensional critical percolation clusters, constrained to touch one or both boundaries, in infinite strips, half-infinite strips, and squares, as well as several related quantities for the infinite strip. Our theoretical results follow from conformal field theory, and are compared with high-precision numerical simulation. For example, we show that the density of clusters touching both boundaries of an infinite strip of unit width (i.e. crossing clusters) is proportional to $(\sin \pi y)^{-5/48}\{[\cos(\pi y/2)]^{1/3} +[\sin (\pi y/2)]^{1/3}-1\}$. We also determine numerically contours for the density of clusters crossing squares and long rectangles with open boundaries on the sides, and compare with theory for the density along an edge. 
0704.00902	Effective band-structure in the insulating phase versus strong dynamical  correlations in metallic VO2	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Jan M. Tomczak, Ferdi Aryasetiawan, Silke Biermann	 Abstract: Using a general analytical continuation scheme for cluster dynamical mean field calculations, we analyze real-frequency self-energies, momentum-resolved spectral functions, and one-particle excitations of the metallic and insulating phases of VO2. While for the former dynamical correlations and lifetime effects prevent a description in terms of quasi-particles, the excitations of the latter allow for an effective band-structure. We construct an orbital-dependent, but static one-particle potential that reproduces the full many-body spectrum. Yet, the ground state is well beyond a static one-particle description. The emerging picture gives a non-trivial answer to the decade-old question of the nature of the insulator, which we characterize as a ``many-body Peierls'' state. 
0704.00903	New possible properties of atomic nuclei investigated by non linear  methods: Fractal and recurrence quantification analysis	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Elio Conte, Andrei Yu. Khrennikov, Joseph P. Zbilut	 Abstract: For the first time we apply the methodologies of nonlinear analysis to investigate atomic matter. We use these methods in the analysis of Atomic Weights and of Mass Number of atomic nuclei. Using the AutoCorrelation Function and Mutual Information we establish the presence of nonlinear effects in the mechanism of increasing mass of atomic nuclei considered as a function of the atomic number. We find that increasing mass is divergent, possibly chaotic. We also investigate the possible existence of a Power Law for atomic nuclei and, using also the technique of the variogram, we conclude that a fractal regime could superintend to the mechanism of increasing mass for nuclei. Finally, using the Hurst exponent, evidence is obtained that the mechanism of increasing mass in atomic nuclei is in the fractional Brownian regime. The most interesting results are obtained by using Recurrence Quantification Analysis (RQA). New recurrences, psudoperiodicities, self-resemblance and class of self-similarities are identified with values of determinism showing oscillating values indicating the presence of more or less stability during the process of increasing mass of atomic nuclei. In brief, new regimes of regularities are identified for atomic nuclei that deserve to be studied by future researches. In particular an accurate analysis of binding energy values by nonlinear methods is further required. 
0704.00904	The Use of Weighting in Periodicity Searches in All-Sky Monitor Data:  Applications to the GLAST LAT	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Robin Corbet, Richard Dubois	 Abstract: The light curves produced by all-sky monitors, such as the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer All-Sky Monitor and the Swift Burst Alert Telescope (BAT), generally have non-uniform error bars. In searching for periodic modulation in this type of data using power spectra it can be important to use appropriate weighting of data points to achieve the best sensitivity. It was recently demonstrated that for Swift BAT data a simple weighting scheme can actually sometimes reduce the sensitivity of the power spectrum depending on source brightness. Instead, a modified weighting scheme, based on the Cochran semi-weighted mean, gives improved results independent of source brightness. We investigate the benefits of weighting power spectra in period searches using simulated GLAST LAT observations of gamma-ray binaries. 
0704.00905	Dielectronic Recombination of Fe XV forming Fe XIV: Laboratory  Measurements and Theoretical Calculations	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D. V. Lukić, M. Schnell, D. W. Savin, C. Brandau, E. W. Schmidt, S. Böhm, A. Müller, S. Schippers, M. Lestinsky, F. Sprenger, A. Wolf, Z. Altun, N. R. Badnell	 Abstract: We have measured resonance strengths and energies for dielectronic recombination (DR) of Mg-like Fe XV forming Al-like Fe XIV via N=3 -> N' = 3 core excitations in the electron-ion collision energy range 0-45 eV. All measurements were carried out using the heavy-ion Test Storage Ring at the Max Planck Institute for Nuclear Physics in Heidelberg, Germany. We have also carried out new multiconfiguration Breit-Pauli (MCBP) calculations using the AUTOSTRUCTURE code. For electron-ion collision energies < 25 eV we find poor agreement between our experimental and theoretical resonance energies and strengths. From 25 to 42 eV we find good agreement between the two for resonance energies. But in this energy range the theoretical resonance strengths are ~ 31% larger than the experimental results. This is larger than our estimated total experimental uncertainty in this energy range of +/- 26% (at a 90% confidence level). Above 42 eV the difference in the shape between the calculated and measured 3s3p(^1P_1)nl DR series limit we attribute partly to the nl dependence of the detection probabilities of high Rydberg states in the experiment. We have used our measurements, supplemented by our AUTOSTRUCTURE calculations, to produce a Maxwellian-averaged 3 -> 3 DR rate coefficient for Fe XV forming Fe XIV. The resulting rate coefficient is estimated to be accurate to better than +/- 29% (at a 90% confidence level) for k_BT_e > 1 eV. At temperatures of k_BT_e ~ 2.5-15 eV, where Fe XV is predicted to form in photoionized plasmas, significant discrepancies are found between our experimentally-derived rate coefficient and previously published theoretical results. Our new MCBP plasma rate coefficient is 19-28% smaller than our experimental results over this temperature range. 
0704.00906	Metropolis algorithm and equienergy sampling for two mean field spin  systems	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Bassetti Federico, Leisen Fabrizio	 Abstract: In this paper we study the Metropolis algorithm in connection with two mean--field spin systems, the so called mean--field Ising model and the Blume--Emery--Griffiths model. In both this examples the naive choice of proposal chain gives rise, for some parameters, to a slowly mixing Metropolis chain, that is a chain whose spectral gap decreases exponentially fast (in the dimension $N$ of the problem). Here we show how a slight variant in the proposal chain can avoid this problem, keeping the mean computational cost similar to the cost of the usual Metropolis. More precisely we prove that, with a suitable variant in the proposal, the Metropolis chain has a spectral gap which decreases polynomially in 1/N. Using some symmetry structure of the energy, the method rests on allowing appropriate jumps within the energy level of the starting state. 
0704.00907	Experimental Test of the High-Frequency Quantum Shot Noise Theory in a  Quantum Point Contact	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Eva Zakka-Bajjani (SPEC), Julien Segala (SPEC), Fabien Portier (SPEC), Patrice Roche (SPEC), Christian Glattli (SPEC), Antonella Cavanna (LPN), Yong Jin (LPN)	 Abstract: We report on direct measurements of the electronic shot noise of a quantum point contact at frequencies nu in the range 4-8 GHz. The very small energy scale used ensures energy independent transmissions of the few transmitted electronic modes and their accurate knowledge. Both the thermal energy and the quantum point contact drain-source voltage Vds are comparable to the photon energy hnu leading to observation of the shot noise suppression when $V_{ds}<h\nu/e$. Our measurements provide the first complete test of the finite frequency shot noise scattering theory without adjustable parameters. 
0704.00908	Extragalactic Radio Sources and the WMAP Cold Spot	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Lawrence Rudnick, Shea Brown, Liliya R. Williams	 Abstract: We detect a dip of 20-45% in the surface brightness and number counts of NVSS sources smoothed to a few degrees at the location of the WMAP cold spot. The dip has structure on scales of approximately 1-10 degrees. Together with independent all-sky wavelet analyses, our results suggest that the dip in extragalactic brightness and number counts and the WMAP cold spot are physically related, i.e., that the coincidence is neither a statistical anomaly nor a WMAP foreground correction problem. If the cold spot does originate from structures at modest redshifts, as we suggest, then there is no remaining need for non-Gaussian processes at the last scattering surface of the CMB to explain the cold spot. The late integrated Sachs-Wolfe effect, already seen statistically for NVSS source counts, can now be seen to operate on a single region. To create the magnitude and angular size of the WMAP cold spot requires a ~140 Mpc radius completely empty void at z<=1 along this line of sight. This is far outside the current expectations of the concordance cosmology, and adds to the anomalies seen in the CMB. 
0704.00909	L^2 rho form for normal coverings of fibre bundles	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Sara Azzali	 Abstract: We define the secondary invariants L^2- eta and -rho forms for families of generalized Dirac operators on normal coverings of fibre bundles. On the covering family we assume transversally smooth spectral projections, and Novikov--Shubin invariants bigger than 3(dim B+1) to treat the large time asymptotic for general operators. In the particular case of a bundle of spin manifolds, we study the L^2- rho class in relation to the space of positive scalar curvature vertical metrics. 
0704.00910	On the Nonexistence of Nontrivial Involutive n-Homomorphisms of  C*-algebras	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Efton Park, Jody Trout	 Abstract: An n-homomorphism between algebras is a linear map $\phi : A \to B$ such that $\phi(a_1 ... a_n) = \phi(a_1)... \phi(a_n)$ for all elements $a_1, >..., a_n \in A.$ Every homomorphism is an n-homomorphism, for all n >= 2, but the converse is false, in general. Hejazian et al. [7] ask: Is every *-preserving n-homomorphism between C*-algebras continuous? We answer their question in the affirmative, but the even and odd n arguments are surprisingly disjoint. We then use these results to prove stronger ones: If n >2 is even, then $\phi$ is just an ordinary *-homomorphism. If n >= 3 is odd, then $\phi$ is a difference of two orthogonal *-homomorphisms. Thus, there are no nontrivial *-linear n-homomorphisms between C*-algebras. 
0704.00911	Smooth and Starburst Tidal Tails in the GEMS and GOODS Fields	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Debra Meloy Elmegreen (1), Bruce G. Elmegreen (2), Thomas Ferguson (1), Brendan Mullan (1,3) ((1) Vassar College, (2) IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, (3) Colgate University)	 Abstract: GEMS and GOODS fields were examined to z~1.4 for galaxy interactions and mergers. The basic morphologies are familiar: antennae with long tidal tails, tidal dwarfs, and merged cores; M51-type galaxies with disk spirals and tidal arm companions; early-type galaxies with diffuse plumes; equal-mass grazing-collisions; and thick J-shaped tails beaded with star formation and double cores. One type is not common locally and is apparently a loose assemblage of smaller galaxies. Photometric measurements were made of the tails and clumps, and physical sizes were determined assuming photometric redshifts. Antennae tails are a factor of ~3 smaller in GEMS and GOODS systems compared to local antennae; their disks are a factor of ~2 smaller than locally. Collisions among early type galaxies generally show no fine structure in their tails, indicating that stellar debris is usually not unstable. One exception has a 5x10**9 Msun smooth red clump that could be a pure stellar condensation. Most tidal dwarfs are blue and probably form by gravitational instabilities in the gas. One tidal dwarf looks like it existed previously and was incorporated into the arm tip by tidal forces. The star-forming regions in tidal arms are 10 to 1000 times more massive than star complexes in local galaxies, although their separations are about the same. If they all form by gravitational instabilities, then the gaseous velocity dispersions in interacting galaxies have to be larger than in local galaxies by a factor of ~5 or more; the gas column densities have to be larger by the square of this factor. 
0704.00912	Nuclear Spin Effects in Optical Lattice Clocks	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:Martin M. Boyd, Tanya Zelevinsky, Andrew D. Ludlow, Sebastian Blatt, Thomas Zanon-Willette, Seth M. Foreman, Jun Ye	 Abstract: We present a detailed experimental and theoretical study of the effect of nuclear spin on the performance of optical lattice clocks. With a state-mixing theory including spin-orbit and hyperfine interactions, we describe the origin of the $^1S_0$-$^3P_0$ clock transition and the differential g-factor between the two clock states for alkaline-earth(-like) atoms, using $^{87}$Sr as an example. Clock frequency shifts due to magnetic and optical fields are discussed with an emphasis on those relating to nuclear structure. An experimental determination of the differential g-factor in $^{87}$Sr is performed and is in good agreement with theory. The magnitude of the tensor light shift on the clock states is also explored experimentally. State specific measurements with controlled nuclear spin polarization are discussed as a method to reduce the nuclear spin-related systematic effects to below 10$^{-17}$ in lattice clocks. 
0704.00913	Domain wall switching: optimizing the energy landscape	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Zhihong Lu, P. B. Visscher, W. H. Butler	 Abstract: It has recently been suggested that exchange spring media offer a way to increase media density without causing thermal instability (superparamagnetism), by using a hard and a soft layer coupled by exchange. Victora has suggested a figure of merit xi = 2 E_b/mu_0 m_s H_sw, the ratio of the energy barrier to that of a Stoner-Wohlfarth system with the same switching field, which is 1 for a Stoner-Wohlfarth (coherently switching) particle and 2 for an optimal two-layer composite medium. A number of theoretical approaches have been used for this problem (e.g., various numbers of coupled Stoner-Wohlfarth layers and continuum micromagnetics). In this paper we show that many of these approaches can be regarded as special cases or approximations to a variational formulation of the problem, in which the energy is minimized for fixed magnetization. The results can be easily visualized in terms of a plot of the energy as a function of magnetic moment m_z, in which both the switching field [the maximum slope of E(m_z)] and the stability (determined by the energy barrier E_b) are geometrically visible. In this formulation we can prove a rigorous limit on the figure of merit xi, which can be no higher than 4. We also show that a quadratic anistropy suggested by Suess et al comes very close to this limit. 
0704.00914	Electromagnetic wormholes via handlebody constructions	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Allan Greenleaf, Yaroslav Kurylev, Matti Lassas, Gunther Uhlmann	 Abstract: Cloaking devices are prescriptions of electrostatic, optical or electromagnetic parameter fields (conductivity $\sigma(x)$, index of refraction $n(x)$, or electric permittivity $\epsilon(x)$ and magnetic permeability $\mu(x)$) which are piecewise smooth on $\mathbb R^3$ and singular on a hypersurface $\Sigma$, and such that objects in the region enclosed by $\Sigma$ are not detectable to external observation by waves. Here, we give related constructions of invisible tunnels, which allow electromagnetic waves to pass between possibly distant points, but with only the ends of the tunnels visible to electromagnetic imaging. Effectively, these change the topology of space with respect to solutions of Maxwell's equations, corresponding to attaching a handlebody to $\mathbb R^3$. The resulting devices thus function as electromagnetic wormholes. 
0704.00915	Millimeter-Thick Single-Walled Carbon Nanotube Forests: Hidden Role of  Catalyst Support	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:S. Noda, K. Hasegawa, H. Sugime, K. Kakehi, Z. Zhang, S. Maruyama, Y. Yamaguchi	 Abstract: A parametric study of so-called "super growth" of single-walled carbon nanotubes(SWNTs) was done by using combinatorial libraries of iron/aluminum oxide catalysts. Millimeter-thick forests of nanotubes grew within 10 min, and those grown by using catalysts with a thin Fe layer (about 0.5 nm) were SWNTs. Although nanotube forests grew under a wide range of reaction conditions such as gas composition and temperature, the window for SWNT was narrow. Fe catalysts rapidly grew nanotubes only when supported on aluminum oxide. Aluminum oxide, which is a well-known catalyst in hydrocarbon reforming, plays an essential role in enhancing the nanotube growth rates. 
0704.00916	Test of nuclear level density inputs for Hauser-Feshbach model  calculations	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:A.V. Voinov, S.M. Grimes, C.R. Brune, M.J. Hornish, T.N. Massey, A. Salas	 Abstract: The energy spectra of neutrons, protons, and alpha-particles have been measured from the d+59Co and 3He+58Fe reactions leading to the same compound nucleus, 61$Ni. The experimental cross sections have been compared to Hauser-Feshbach model calculations using different input level density models. None of them have been found to agree with experiment. It manifests the serious problem with available level density parameterizations especially those based on neutron resonance spacings and density of discrete levels. New level densities and corresponding Fermi-gas parameters have been obtained for reaction product nuclei such as 60Ni,60Co, and 57Fe. 
0704.00917	The HARPS search for southern extra-solar planets. IX. Exoplanets  orbiting HD 100777, HD 190647, and HD 221287	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Dominique Naef, Michel Mayor, Willy Benz, Francois Bouchy, Gaspare Lo Curto, Christophe Lovis, Claire Moutou, Francesco Pepe, Didier Queloz, Nuno C. Santos, Stephane Udry	 Abstract: The HARPS high-resolution high-accuracy spectrograph is offered to the astronomical community since the second half of 2003. Since then, we have been using this instrument for monitoring radial velocities of a large sample of Solar-type stars (~1400 stars) in order to search for their possible low-mass companions. Amongst the goals of our survey, one is to significantly increase the number of detected extra-solar planets in a volume-limited sample to improve our knowledge of their orbital elements distributions and thus obtain better constraints for planet-formation models. In this paper, we present the HARPS radial-velocity data and orbital solutions for 3 Solar-type stars: HD 100777, HD 190647, and HD 221287. The radial-velocity data of HD 100777 is best explained by the presence of a 1.1 M_Jup planetary companion on a 384--day eccentric orbit (e=0.36). The orbital fit obtained for the slightly evolved star HD 190647 reveals the presence of a long-period (P=1038 d) 1.9 M_Jup planetary companion on a moderately eccentric orbit (e=0.18). HD 221287 is hosting a 3.1 M_Jup planet on a 456--day orbit. The shape of this orbit is not very well constrained because of our non-optimal temporal coverage and because of the presence of abnormally large residuals. We find clues for these large residuals to result from spectral line profile variations probably induced by stellar activity related processes. 
0704.00918	Algebraic geometry of Gaussian Bayesian networks	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Seth Sullivant	 Abstract: Conditional independence models in the Gaussian case are algebraic varieties in the cone of positive definite covariance matrices. We study these varieties in the case of Bayesian networks, with a view towards generalizing the recursive factorization theorem to situations with hidden variables. In the case when the underlying graph is a tree, we show that the vanishing ideal of the model is generated by the conditional independence statements implied by graph. We also show that the ideal of any Bayesian network is homogeneous with respect to a multigrading induced by a collection of upstream random variables. This has a number of important consequences for hidden variable models. Finally, we relate the ideals of Bayesian networks to a number of classical constructions in algebraic geometry including toric degenerations of the Grassmannian, matrix Schubert varieties, and secant varieties. 
0704.00919	Interactions, superconducting $T_c$, and fluctuation magnetization for  two coupled dots in the crossover between the Gaussian Orthogonal and Unitary  ensembles	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Oleksandr Zelyak, Ganpathy Murthy, Igor Rozhkov	 Abstract: We study a system of two quantum dots connected by a hopping bridge. Both the dots and connecting region are assumed to be in universal crossover regimes between Gaussian Orthogonal and Unitary ensembles. Using a diagrammatic approach appropriate for energy separations much larger than the level spacing we obtain the ensemble-averaged one- and two-particle Green's functions. It turns out that the diffuson and cooperon parts of the two-particle Green's function can be described by separate scaling functions. We then use this information to investigate a model interacting system in which one dot has an attractive s-wave reduced Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer interaction, while the other is noninteracting but subject to an orbital magnetic field. We find that the critical temperature is {\it nonmonotonic} in the flux through the second dot in a certain regime of interdot coupling. Likewise, the fluctuation magnetization above the critical temperature is also nonmonotonic in this regime, can be either diamagnetic or paramagnetic, and can be deduced from the cooperon scaling function. 
0704.00920	Two-proton radioactivity and three-body decay. III. Integral formulae  for decay widths in a simplified semianalytical approach	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:L.V. Grigorenko, M.V. Zhukov	 Abstract: Three-body decays of resonant states are studied using integral formulae for decay widths. Theoretical approach with a simplified Hamiltonian allows semianalytical treatment of the problem. The model is applied to decays of the first excited $3/2^{-}$ state of $^{17}$Ne and the $3/2^{-}$ ground state of $^{45}$Fe. The convergence of three-body hyperspherical model calculations to the exact result for widths and energy distributions are studied. The theoretical results for $^{17}$Ne and $^{45}$Fe decays are updated and uncertainties of the derived values are discussed in detail. Correlations for the decay of $^{17}$Ne $3/2^-$ state are also studied. 
0704.00921	Z^0 \to 2γand the Twisted Coproduct of the Poincaré Group	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:A. P. Balachandran, S. G. Jo	 Abstract: Yang's theorem forbids the process $Z^0 \to 2\gamma$ in any Poincar\'{e} invariant theory if photons are bosons and their two-particle states transform under the Poincar\'{e} group in the standard way (under the standard coproduct of the Poincar\'{e} group). This is an important result as it does not depend on the assumptions of quantum field theory. Recent work on noncommutative geometry requires deforming the above coproduct by the Drinfel'd twist. We prove that $Z^0 \to 2\gamma$ is forbidden for the twisted coproduct as well. This result is also independent of the assumptions of quantum field theory. As an illustration of the use of our general formulae, we further show that $Z^0 \to \nu + \nu$ is forbidden for the standard or twisted coproduct of the Poincar\'{e} group if the neutrino is massless, even if lepton number is not conserved. This is a special case of our general result that a massive particle of spin $j$ cannot decay into two identical massless particles of the same helicity if $j$ is odd, regardless of the coproduct used. 
0704.00922	A variation of Gronwall's lemma	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Quang-Cuong Pham (LPPA, College de France)	 Abstract: We prove a variation of Gronwall's lemma. 
0704.00923	When the Cramer-Rao Inequality provides no information	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Steven J. Miller	 Abstract: We investigate a one-parameter family of probability densities (related to the Pareto distribution, which describes many natural phenomena) where the Cramer-Rao inequality provides no information. 
0704.00924	Lower order terms in the 1-level density for families of holomorphic  cuspidal newforms	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Steven J. Miller	 Abstract: The Katz-Sarnak density conjecture states that, in the limit as the conductors tend to infinity, the behavior of normalized zeros near the central point of families of L-functions agree with the N -> oo scaling limits of eigenvalues near 1 of subgroups of U(N). Evidence for this has been found for many families by studying the n-level densities; for suitably restricted test functions the main terms agree with random matrix theory. In particular, all one-parameter families of elliptic curves with rank r over Q(T) and the same distribution of signs of functional equations have the same limiting behavior. We break this universality and find family dependent lower order correction terms in many cases; these lower order terms have applications ranging from excess rank to modeling the behavior of zeros near the central point, and depend on the arithmetic of the family. We derive an alternate form of the explicit formula for GL(2) L-functions which simplifies comparisons, replacing sums over powers of Satake parameters by sums of the moments of the Fourier coefficients lambda_f(p). Our formula highlights the differences that we expect to exist from families whose Fourier coefficients obey different laws (for example, we expect Sato-Tate to hold only for non-CM families of elliptic curves). Further, by the work of Rosen and Silverman we expect lower order biases to the Fourier coefficients in families of elliptic curves with rank over Q(T); these biases can be seen in our expansions. We analyze several families of elliptic curves and see different lower order corrections, depending on whether or not the family has complex multiplication, a forced torsion point, or non-zero rank over Q(T). 
0704.00925	Spinor Dynamics in an Antiferromagnetic Spin-1 Condensate	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:A.T. Black, E. Gomez, L.D. Turner, S. Jung, P.D. Lett	 Abstract: We observe coherent spin oscillations in an antiferromagnetic spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensate of sodium. The variation of the spin oscillations with magnetic field shows a clear signature of nonlinearity, in agreement with theory, which also predicts anharmonic oscillations near a critical magnetic field. Measurements of the magnetic phase diagram agree with predictions made in the approximation of a single spatial mode. The oscillation period yields the best measurement to date of the sodium spin-dependent interaction coefficient, determining that the difference between the sodium spin-dependent s-wave scattering lengths $a_{f=2}-a_{f=0}$ is $2.47\pm0.27$ Bohr radii. 
0704.00926	A Contraction Theory Approach to Stochastic Incremental Stability	Optimization and Control (math.OC)	Authors:Q.-C. Pham, N. Tabareau, J.-J. Slotine	 Abstract: We investigate the incremental stability properties of It\^o stochastic dynamical systems. Specifically, we derive a stochastic version of nonlinear contraction theory that provides a bound on the mean square distance between any two trajectories of a stochastically contracting system. This bound can be expressed as a function of the noise intensity and the contraction rate of the noise-free system. We illustrate these results in the contexts of stochastic nonlinear observers design and stochastic synchronization. 
0704.00927	A Symplectic Test of the L-Functions Ratios Conjecture	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Steven J. Miller	 Abstract: Recently Conrey, Farmer and Zirnbauer conjectured formulas for the averages over a family of ratios of products of shifted L-functions. Their L-functions Ratios Conjecture predicts both the main and lower order terms for many problems, ranging from n-level correlations and densities to mollifiers and moments to vanishing at the central point. There are now many results showing agreement between the main terms of number theory and random matrix theory; however, there are very few families where the lower order terms are known. These terms often depend on subtle arithmetic properties of the family, and provide a way to break the universality of behavior. The L-functions Ratios Conjecture provides a powerful and tractable way to predict these terms. We test a specific case here, that of the 1-level density for the symplectic family of quadratic Dirichlet characters arising from even fundamental discriminants d \le X. For test functions supported in (-1/3, 1/3) we calculate all the lower order terms up to size O(X^{-1/2+epsilon}) and observe perfect agreement with the conjecture (for test functions supported in (-1, 1) we show agreement up to errors of size O(X^{-epsilon}) for any epsilon). Thus for this family and suitably restricted test functions, we completely verify the Ratios Conjecture's prediction for the 1-level density. 
0704.00928	Cosmology from String Theory	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Luis Anchordoqui, Haim Goldberg, Satoshi Nawata, Carlos Nunez	 Abstract: We explore the cosmological content of Salam-Sezgin six dimensional supergravity, and find a solution to the field equations in qualitative agreement with observation of distant supernovae, primordial nucleosynthesis abundances, and recent measurements of the cosmic microwave background. The carrier of the acceleration in the present de Sitter epoch is a quintessence field slowly rolling down its exponential potential. Intrinsic to this model is a second modulus which is automatically stabilized and acts as a source of cold dark matter with a mass proportional to an exponential function of the quintessence field (hence realizing VAMP models within a String context). However, any attempt to saturate the present cold dark matter component in this manner leads to unacceptable deviations from cosmological data -- a numerical study reveals that this source can account for up to about 7% of the total cold dark matter budget. We also show that (1) the model will support a de Sitter energy in agreement with observation at the expense of a miniscule breaking of supersymmetry in the compact space; (2) variations in the fine structure constant are controlled by the stabilized modulus and are negligible; (3) ``fifth''forces are carried by the stabilized modulus and are short range; (4) the long time behavior of the model in four dimensions is that of a Robertson-Walker universe with a constant expansion rate (w = -1/3). Finally, we present a String theory background by lifting our six dimensional cosmological solution to ten dimensions. 
0704.00929	Noncommutative Electromagnetism As A Large N Gauge Theory	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Hyun Seok Yang	 Abstract: We map noncommutative (NC) U(1) gauge theory on R^d_C X R^{2n}_{NC} to U(N -> \infty) Yang-Mills theory on R^d_C, where R^d_C is a d-dimensional commutative spacetime while R^{2n}_{NC} is a 2n-dimensional NC space. The resulting U(N) Yang-Mills theory on R^d_C is equivalent to that obtained by the dimensional reduction of (d+2n)-dimensional U(N) Yang-Mills theory onto R^d_C. We show that the gauge-Higgs system (A_\mu,\Phi^a) in the U(N -> \infty) Yang-Mills theory on R^d_C leads to an emergent geometry in the (d+2n)-dimensional spacetime whose metric was determined by Ward a long time ago. In particular, the 10-dimensional gravity for d=4 and n=3 corresponds to the emergent geometry arising from the 4-dimensional N=4 vector multiplet in the AdS/CFT duality. We further elucidate the emergent gravity by showing that the gauge-Higgs system (A_\mu,\Phi^a) in half-BPS configurations describes self-dual Einstein gravity. 
0704.00930	Marginal Solutions for the Superstring	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Theodore Erler	 Abstract: We construct a class of analytic solutions of WZW-type open superstring field theory describing marginal deformations of a reference D-brane background. The deformations we consider are generated by on-shell vertex operators with vanishing operator products. The superstring solution exhibits an intriguing duality with the corresponding marginal solution of the {\it bosonic} string. In particular, the superstring problem is ``dual'' to the problem of re-expressing the bosonic marginal solution in pure gauge form. This represents the first nonsingular analytic solution of open superstring field theory. 
0704.00931	The Isophotal Structure of Early-Type Galaxies in the SDSS: Dependence  on AGN Activity and Environment	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Anna Pasquali, Frank C. van den Bosch, Hans-Walter Rix (MPIA)	 Abstract: We study the dependence of the isophotal shape of early-type galaxies on their absolute B-band magnitude, their dynamical mass, and their nuclear activity and environment, using an unprecedented large sample of 847 early-type galaxies identified in the SDSS by Hao et al (2006). We find that the fraction of disky galaxies smoothly decreases with increasing luminosity. The large sample allows us to describe these trends accurately with tight linear relations that are statistically robust against the uncertainty in the isophotal shape measurements. There is also a host of significant correlations between the disky fraction and indicators of nuclear activity (both in the optical and in the radio) and environment (soft X-rays, group mass, group hierarchy). Our analysis shows however that these correlations can be accurately matched by assuming that the disky fraction depends only on galaxy luminosity or mass. We therefore conclude that neither the level of activity, nor group mass or group hierarchy help in better predicting the isophotal shape of early-type galaxies. 
0704.00932	On the Origin of the Dichotomy of Early-Type Galaxies: The Role of Dry  Mergers and AGN Feedback	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Xi Kang, Frank C. van den Bosch, Anna Pasquali (MPIA)	 Abstract: Using a semi-analytical model for galaxy formation, combined with a large N-body simulation, we investigate the origin of the dichotomy among early-type galaxies. We find that boxy galaxies originate from mergers with a progenitor mass ratio $n < 2$ and with a combined cold gas mass fraction $F_{\rm cold} < 0.1$. Our model accurately reproduces the observed fraction of boxy systems as a function of luminosity and halo mass, for both central galaxies and satellites. After correcting for the stellar mass dependence, the properties of the last major merger of early-type galaxies are independent of their halo mass. This provides theoretical support for the conjecture of Pasquali et al (2007) that the stellar mass of an early-type galaxy is the main parameter that governs its isophotal shape. We argue that the observed dichotomy of early-type galaxies has a natural explanation within hierarchical structure formation, and does not require AGN feedback. Rather, we argue that it owes to the fact that more massive systems (i) have more massive progenitors, (ii) assemble later, and (iii) have a larger fraction of early-type progenitors. Each of these three trends causes the cold gas mass fraction of the progenitors of more massive early-types to be lower, so that their last major merger was dryer. Finally, our model predicts that (i) less than 10 percent of all early-type galaxies form in major mergers that involve two early-type progenitors, (ii) more than 95 percent of all boxy early-type galaxies with $M_* < 2 \times 10^{10} h^{-1} \Msun$ are satellite galaxies, and (iii) about 70 percent of all low mass early-types do not form a supermassive black hole binary at their last major merger. The latter may help to explain why low mass early-types have central cusps, while their massive counterparts have cores. 
0704.00933	Quantum and Classical Spins on the Spatially Distorted Kagome Lattice:  Applications to Volborthite	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Fa Wang, Ashvin Vishwanath, Yong Baek Kim	 Abstract: In Volborthite, spin-1/2 moments form a distorted Kagom\'e lattice, of corner sharing isosceles triangles with exchange constants $J$ on two bonds and $J'$ on the third bond. We study the properties of such spin systems, and show that despite the distortion, the lattice retains a great deal of frustration. Although sub-extensive, the classical ground state degeneracy remains very large, growing exponentially with the system perimeter. We consider degeneracy lifting by thermal and quantum fluctuations. To linear (spin wave) order, the degeneracy is found to stay intact. Two complementary approaches are therefore introduced, appropriate to low and high temperatures, which point to the same ordered pattern. In the low temperature limit, an effective chirality Hamiltonian is derived from non-linear spin waves which predicts a transition on increasing $J'/J$, from $\sqrt 3\times \sqrt 3$ type order to a new ferrimagnetic {\em striped chirality} order with a doubled unit cell. This is confirmed by a large-N approximation on the O($n$) model on this lattice. While the saddle point solution produces a line degeneracy, $O(1/n)$ corrections select the non-trivial wavevector of the striped chirality state. The quantum limit of spin 1/2 on this lattice is studied via exact small system diagonalization and compare well with experimental results at intermediate temperatures. We suggest that the very low temperature spin frozen state seen in NMR experiments may be related to the disconnected nature of classical ground states on this lattice, which leads to a prediction for NMR line shapes. 
0704.00934	Two-proton radioactivity and three-body decay. IV. Connection to  quasiclassical formulation	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:L.V. Grigorenko, M.V. Zhukov	 Abstract: We derive quasiclassical expressions for the three-body decay width and define the ``preexponential'' coefficients for them. The derivation is based on the integral formulae for the three-body width obtained in the semianalytical approach with simplified three-body Hamiltonian [L.V. Grigorenko and M.V.\ Zhukov, arXiv:0704.0920v1]. The model is applied to the decays of the first excited $3/2^{-}$ state of $^{17}$Ne and $3/2^{-}$ ground state of $^{45}$Fe. Various qualitative aspects of the model and relations with the other simplified approaches to the three-body decays are discussed. 
0704.00935	Percolation Modeling of Conductance of Self-Healing Composites	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Alexander Dementsov, Vladimir Privman	 Abstract: We explore the conductance of self-healing materials as a measure of the material integrity in the regime of the onset of the initial fatigue. Continuum effective-field modeling and lattice numerical simulations are reported. Our results illustrate the general features of the self-healing process: The onset of the material fatigue is delayed, by developing a plateau-like time-dependence of the material quality. We demonstrate that in this low-damage regime, the changes in the conductance and similar transport/response properties of the material can be used as measures of the material quality degradation. 
0704.00936	Analytic solutions for marginal deformations in open superstring field  theory	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Yuji Okawa (DESY)	 Abstract: We extend the calculable analytic approach to marginal deformations recently developed in open bosonic string field theory to open superstring field theory formulated by Berkovits. We construct analytic solutions to all orders in the deformation parameter when operator products made of the marginal operator and the associated superconformal primary field are regular. 
0704.00937	Invariants of Triangular Lie Algebras	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Vyacheslav Boyko, Jiri Patera, Roman Popovych	 Abstract: Triangular Lie algebras are the Lie algebras which can be faithfully represented by triangular matrices of any finite size over the real/complex number field. In the paper invariants ('generalized Casimir operators') are found for three classes of Lie algebras, namely those which are either strictly or non-strictly triangular, and for so-called special upper triangular Lie algebras. Algebraic algorithm of [J. Phys. A: Math. Gen., 2006, V.39, 5749; math-ph/0602046], developed further in [J. Phys. A: Math. Theor., 2007, V.40, 113; math-ph/0606045], is used to determine the invariants. A conjecture of [J. Phys. A: Math. Gen., 2001, V.34, 9085], concerning the number of independent invariants and their form, is corroborated. 
0704.00938	Approaching equilibrium and the distribution of clusters	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Hui Wang, Kipton Barros, Harvey Gould, W. Klein	 Abstract: We investigate the approach to stable and metastable equilibrium in Ising models using a cluster representation. The distribution of nucleation times is determined using the Metropolis algorithm and the corresponding $\phi^{4}$ model using Langevin dynamics. We find that the nucleation rate is suppressed at early times even after global variables such as the magnetization and energy have apparently reached their time independent values. The mean number of clusters whose size is comparable to the size of the nucleating droplet becomes time independent at about the same time that the nucleation rate reaches its constant value. We also find subtle structural differences between the nucleating droplets formed before and after apparent metastable equilibrium has been established. 
0704.00939	Does the Blazar Gamma-Ray Spectrum Harden with Increasing Flux? Analysis  of 9 Years of EGRET Data	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Giridhar Nandikotkur, Keith M. Jahoda, R. C. Hartman, R. Mukherjee, P. Sreekumar, M. Böttcher, R. M. Sambruna, Jean H. Swank	 Abstract: The Energetic Gamma-Ray Experiment Telescope (EGRET) on the Compton Gamma-Ray Observatory (CGRO) discovered gamma-ray emission from more than 67 blazars during its 9 yr lifetime. We conducted an exhaustive search of the EGRET archives and selected all the blazars that were observed multiple times and were bright enough to enable a spectral analysis using standard power-law models. The sample consists of 18 flat-spectrum radio quasars(FSRQs), 6 low-frequency peaked BL Lac objects (LBLs) and 2 high-frequency peaked BL Lac objects (HBLs). We do not detect any clear pattern in the variation of spectral index with flux. Some of the blazars do not show any statistical evidence for spectral variability. The spectrum hardens with increasing flux in a few cases. There is also evidence for a flux-hardness anticorrelation at low fluxes in five blazars. The well-observed blazars (3C 279, 3C 273, PKS 0528+134, PKS 1622-297 PKS 0208-512) do not show any overall trend in the long-term spectral dependence on flux, but the sample shows a mixture of hard and soft states. We observed a previously unreported spectral hysteresis at weekly timescales in all three FSRQs for which data from flares lasting for ~(3-4) weeks were available. All three sources show a counterclockwise rotation, despite the widely different flux profiles. We analyze the observed spectral behavior in the context of various inverse Compton mechanisms believed to be responsible for emission in the EGRET energy range. Our analysis uses the EGRET skymaps that were regenerated to include the changes in performance during the mission. 
0704.00940	Glueball Masses in (2+1)-Dimensional Anisotropic Weakly-Coupled  Yang-Mills Theory	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Peter Orland	 Abstract: The confinement problem has been solved in the anisotropic (2+1)-dimensional SU(N) Yang-Mills theory at weak coupling. In this paper, we find the low-lying spectrum for N=2. The lightest excitations are pairs of fundamental particles of the (1+1)-dimensional SU(2)XSU(2) principal chiral sigma model bound in a linear potential, with a specified matching condition where the particles overlap. This matching condition can be determined from the exactly-known S-matrix for the sigma model. 
0704.00941	Recovering galaxy star formation and metallicity histories from spectra  using VESPA	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Rita Tojeiro (IfA, Edinburgh), Alan F. Heavens (IfA, Edinburgh), Raul Jimenez (UPenn), Ben Panter (IfA, Edinburgh)	 Abstract: We introduce VErsatile SPectral Analysis (VESPA): a new method which aims to recover robust star formation and metallicity histories from galactic spectra. VESPA uses the full spectral range to construct a galaxy history from synthetic models. We investigate the use of an adaptative parametrization grid to recover reliable star formation histories on a galaxy-by-galaxy basis. Our goal is robustness as opposed to high resolution histories, and the method is designed to return high time resolution only where the data demand it. In this paper we detail the method and we present our findings when we apply VESPA to synthetic and real Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) spectroscopic data. We show that the number of parameters that can be recovered from a spectrum depends strongly on the signal-to-noise, wavelength coverage and presence or absence of a young population. For a typical SDSS sample of galaxies, we can normally recover between 2 to 5 stellar populations. We find very good agreement between VESPA and our previous analysis of the SDSS sample with MOPED. 
0704.00942	Axiom A polynomial skew products of C^2 and their postcritical sets	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Laura DeMarco, Suzanne Lynch Hruska	 Abstract: A polynomial skew product of C^2 is a map of the form f(z,w) = (p(z), q(z,w)), where p and q are polynomials, such that f is regular of degree d >= 2. For polynomial maps of C, hyperbolicity is equivalent to the condition that the closure of the postcritical set is disjoint from the Julia set; further, critical points either iterate to an attracting cycle or infinity. For polynomial skew products, Jonsson (Math. Ann., 1999) established that f is Axiom A if and only if the closure of the postcritical set is disjoint from the right analog of the Julia set. Here we present the analogous conclusion: critical orbits either escape to infinity or accumulate on an attracting set. In addition, we construct new examples of Axiom A maps demonstrating various postcritical behaviors. 
0704.00943	Search for gravitational-wave bursts in LIGO data from the fourth  science run	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:LIGO Scientific Collaboration	 Abstract: The fourth science run of the LIGO and GEO 600 gravitational-wave detectors, carried out in early 2005, collected data with significantly lower noise than previous science runs. We report on a search for short-duration gravitational-wave bursts with arbitrary waveform in the 64-1600 Hz frequency range appearing in all three LIGO interferometers. Signal consistency tests, data quality cuts, and auxiliary-channel vetoes are applied to reduce the rate of spurious triggers. No gravitational-wave signals are detected in 15.5 days of live observation time; we set a frequentist upper limit of 0.15 per day (at 90% confidence level) on the rate of bursts with large enough amplitudes to be detected reliably. The amplitude sensitivity of the search, characterized using Monte Carlo simulations, is several times better than that of previous searches. We also provide rough estimates of the distances at which representative supernova and binary black hole merger signals could be detected with 50% efficiency by this analysis. 
0704.00944	GLAST and Dark Matter Substructure in the Milky Way	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Michael Kuhlen (1), Jürg Diemand (2), Piero Madau (2, 3) ((1) Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, (2) UC Santa Cruz, (3) Max-Planck-Institut für Astrophysik, Garching, Germany)	 Abstract: We discuss the possibility of GLAST detecting gamma-rays from the annihilation of neutralino dark matter in the Galactic halo. We have used "Via Lactea", currently the highest resolution simulation of Galactic cold dark matter substructure, to quantify the contribution of subhalos to the annihilation signal. We present a simulated allsky map of the expected gamma-ray counts from dark matter annihilation, assuming standard values of particle mass and cross section. In this case GLAST should be able to detect the Galactic center and several individual subhalos. 
0704.00945	Gibbs fragmentation trees	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Peter McCullagh, Jim Pitman, Matthias Winkel	 Abstract: We study fragmentation trees of Gibbs type. In the binary case, we identify the most general Gibbs-type fragmentation tree with Aldous' beta-splitting model, which has an extended parameter range $\beta>-2$ with respect to the ${\rm beta}(\beta+1,\beta+1)$ probability distributions on which it is based. In the multifurcating case, we show that Gibbs fragmentation trees are associated with the two-parameter Poisson--Dirichlet models for exchangeable random partitions of $\mathbb {N}$, with an extended parameter range $0\le\alpha\le1$, $\theta\ge-2\alpha$ and $\alpha<0$, $\theta =-m\alpha$, $m\in \mathbb {N}$. 
0704.00946	Efficient Simulations of Early Structure Formation and Reionization	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Andrei Mesinger, Steven Furlanetto	 Abstract: We present a method to construct semi-numerical ``simulations'', which can efficiently generate realizations of halo distributions and ionization maps at high redshifts. Our procedure combines an excursion-set approach with first-order Lagrangian perturbation theory and operates directly on the linear density and velocity fields. As such, the achievable dynamic range with our algorithm surpasses the current practical limit of N-body codes by orders of magnitude. This is particularly significant in studies of reionization, where the dynamic range is the principal limiting factor. We test our halo-finding and HII bubble-finding algorithms independently against N-body simulations with radiative transfer and obtain excellent agreement. We compute the size distributions of ionized and neutral regions in our maps. We find even larger ionized bubbles than do purely analytic models at the same volume-weighted mean hydrogen neutral fraction. We also generate maps and power spectra of 21-cm brightness temperature fluctuations, which for the first time include corrections due to gas bulk velocities. We find that velocities widen the tails of the temperature distributions and increase small-scale power, though these effects quickly diminish as reionization progresses. We also include some preliminary results from a simulation run with the largest dynamic range to date: a 250 Mpc box that resolves halos with masses M >~ 2.2 x10^8 M_sun. We show that accurately modeling the late stages of reionization requires such large scales. The speed and dynamic range provided by our semi-numerical approach will be extremely useful in the modeling of early structure formation and reionization. 
0704.00947	Jet-disturbed molecular gas near the Seyfert 2 nucleus in M51	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Satoki Matsushita, Sebastien Muller, Jeremy Lim (ASIAA)	 Abstract: Previous molecular gas observations at arcsecond-scale resolution of the Seyfert 2 galaxy M51 suggest the presence of a dense circumnuclear rotating disk, which may be the reservoir for fueling the active nucleus and obscures it from direct view in the optical. However, our recent interferometric CO(3-2) observations show a hint of a velocity gradient perpendicular to the rotating disk, which suggests a more complex structure than previously thought. To image the putative circumnuclear molecular gas disk at sub-arcsecond resolution to better understand both the spatial distribution and kinematics of the molecular gas. We carried out CO(2-1) and CO(1-0) line observations of the nuclear region of M51 with the new A configuration of the IRAM Plateau de Bure Interferometer, yielding a spatial resolution lower than 15 pc. The high resolution images show no clear evidence of a disk, aligned nearly east-west and perpendicular to the radio jet axis, as suggested by previous observations, but show two separate features located on the eastern and western sides of the nucleus. The western feature shows an elongated structure along the jet and a good velocity correspondence with optical emission lines associated with the jet, suggesting that this feature is a jet-entrained gas. The eastern feature is elongated nearly east-west ending around the nucleus. A velocity gradient appears in the same direction with increasingly blueshifted velocities near the nucleus. This velocity gradient is in the opposite sense of that previously inferred for the putative circumnuclear disk. Possible explanations for the observed molecular gas distribution and kinematics are that a rotating gas disk disturbed by the jet, gas streaming toward the nucleus, or a ring with another smaller counter- or Keplarian-rotating gas disk inside. 
0704.00948	Spectroscopy of Nine Cataclysmic Variable Stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:H. A. Sheets, J. R. Thorstensen, C. J. Peters, A. B. Kapusta, C. J. Taylor	 Abstract: We present optical spectroscopy of nine cataclysmic binary stars, mostly dwarf novae, obtained primarily to determine orbital periods Porb. The stars and their periods are LX And, 0.1509743(5) d; CZ Aql, 0.2005(6) d; LU Cam, 0.1499686(4) d; GZ Cnc, 0.0881(4) d; V632 Cyg, 0.06377(8) d; V1006 Cyg, 0.09903(9) d; BF Eri, 0.2708804(4) d; BI Ori, 0.1915(5) d; and FO Per, for which Porb is either 0.1467(4) or 0.1719(5) d. Several of the stars proved to be especially interesting. In BF Eri, we detect the absorption spectrum of a secondary star of spectral type K3 +- 1 subclass, which leads to a distance estimate of approximately 1 kpc. However, BF Eri has a large proper motion (100 mas/yr), and we have a preliminary parallax measurement that confirms the large proper motion and yields only an upper limit for the parallax. BF Eri's space velocity is evidently large, and it appears to belong to the halo population. In CZ Aql, the emission lines have strong wings that move with large velocity amplitude, suggesting a magnetically-channeled accretion flow. The orbital period of V1006 Cyg places it squarely within the 2- to 3-hour "gap" in the distribution of cataclysmic binary orbital periods. 
0704.00949	Conservation laws for invariant functionals containing compositions	Optimization and Control (math.OC)	Authors:Gastao S. F. Frederico, Delfim F. M. Torres	 Abstract: The study of problems of the calculus of variations with compositions is a quite recent subject with origin in dynamical systems governed by chaotic maps. Available results are reduced to a generalized Euler-Lagrange equation that contains a new term involving inverse images of the minimizing trajectories. In this work we prove a generalization of the necessary optimality condition of DuBois-Reymond for variational problems with compositions. With the help of the new obtained condition, a Noether-type theorem is proved. An application of our main result is given to a problem appearing in the chaotic setting when one consider maps that are ergodic. 
0704.00950	Displacement of the Sun from the Galactic Plane	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Yogesh C. Joshi (Queen's University Belfast)	 Abstract: We have carried out a comparative statistical study for the displacement of the Sun from the Galactic plane (z_\odot) following three different methods. The study has been done using a sample of 537 young open clusters (YOCs) with log(Age) < 8.5 lying within a heliocentric distance of 4 kpc and 2030 OB stars observed up to a distance of 1200 pc, all of them have distance information. We decompose the Gould Belt's member in a statistical sense before investigating the variation in the z_\odot estimation with different upper cut-off limits in the heliocentric distance and distance perpendicular to the Galactic plane. We found z_\odot varies in a range of ~ 13 - 20 pc from the analys is of YOCs and ~ 6 - 18 pc from the OB stars. A significant scatter in the z_\odot obtained due to different cut-off values is noticed for the OB stars although no such deviation is seen for the YOCs. We also determined scale heights of 56.9(+3.8)(-3.4} and 61.4(+2.7)(-2.4) pc for the distribution of YOCs and OB stars respectively. 
0704.00951	Correlation amplitude and entanglement entropy in random spin chains	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:J. A. Hoyos, André P. Vieira, Nicolas Laflorencie, E. Miranda	 Abstract: Using strong-disorder renormalization group, numerical exact diagonalization, and quantum Monte Carlo methods, we revisit the random antiferromagnetic XXZ spin-1/2 chain focusing on the long-length and ground-state behavior of the average time-independent spin-spin correlation function C(l)=\upsilon l^{-\eta}. In addition to the well-known universal (disorder-independent) power-law exponent \eta=2, we find interesting universal features displayed by the prefactor \upsilon=\upsilon_o/3, if l is odd, and \upsilon=\upsilon_e/3, otherwise. Although \upsilon_o and \upsilon_e are nonuniversal (disorder dependent) and distinct in magnitude, the combination \upsilon_o + \upsilon_e = -1/4 is universal if C is computed along the symmetric (longitudinal) axis. The origin of the nonuniversalities of the prefactors is discussed in the renormalization-group framework where a solvable toy model is considered. Moreover, we relate the average correlation function with the average entanglement entropy, whose amplitude has been recently shown to be universal. The nonuniversalities of the prefactors are shown to contribute only to surface terms of the entropy. Finally, we discuss the experimental relevance of our results by computing the structure factor whose scaling properties, interestingly, depend on the correlation prefactors. 
0704.00952	SIM PlanetQuest: The Most Promising Near-Term Technique to Detect, Find  Masses, and Determine Three-Dimensional Orbits of Nearby Habitable Planets	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Shao (JPL), G. Marcy (Univ. California), S. Unwin (JPL), R. Allen (STScI), C. Beichman (MSC/Caltech), J. Catanzarite (JPL), B. Chaboyer (Dartmouth), D. Ciardi (MSC/Caltech), S. J. Edberg (JPL), D. Gallagher (JPL), A. Gould (Ohio State), T. Henry (Georgia State), K. Johnston (USNO), S. Kulkarni (Caltech), N. Law (Caltech), S. Majewski (Univ. Virginia), J. Marr (JPL), N. Law (JPL), X. Pan (JPL), S. Shaklan (JPL), E. Shaya (Univ. Maryland), A. Tanner (JPL), J. Tomsick (Univ. California), A. Wehrle (Space Sci Inst), G. Worthey (Washington State Univ)	 Abstract: The past two Decadal Surveys in Astronomy and Astrophysics recommended the completion of a space-based interferometry mission, known today as SIM PlanetQuest, for its unique ability to detect and characterize nearby rocky planets (Bahcall 1991, McKee & Taylor 2001), as well as contributions to a broad range of problems in astrophysics. Numerous committees of the National Research Council as well as NASA Roadmaps have similarly highlighted SIM as the one technology that offers detection and characterization of rocky planets around nearby stars and which is technically ready. To date, SIM remains the only program with the capability of detecting and confirming rocky planets in the habitable zones of nearby solar-type stars. Moreover, SIM measures masses and three-dimensional orbits of habitable planets around nearby stars (within 25 pc); these are the only stars for which follow-up by other techniques is feasible, such as space-based spectroscopy, ground-based interferometry, and of course TPF. 
0704.00953	IR observations of MS 1054-03: Star Formation and its Evolution in Rich  Galaxy Clusters	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Lei Bai, Delphine Marcillac, George H. Rieke, Marcia J. Rieke, Kim-Vy H. Tran, Joannah L. Hinz, Gregory Rudnick, Douglas M. Kelly, Myra Blaylock	 Abstract: We study the infrared (IR) properties of galaxies in the cluster MS 1054-03 at z=0.83 by combining MIPS 24 micron data with spectra of more than 400 galaxies and a very deep K-band selected catalog. 19 IR cluster members are selected spectroscopically, and an additional 15 are selected by their photometric redshifts. We derive the IR luminosity function of the cluster and find strong evolution compared to the similar-mass Coma cluster. The best fitting Schechter function gives L*_{IR}=11.49 +0.30/-0.29 L_sun with a fixed faint end slope, about one order of magnitude larger than that in Coma. The rate of evolution of the IR luminosity from Coma to MS 1054-03 is consistent with that found in field galaxies, and it suggests that some internal mechanism, e.g., the consumption of the gas fuel, is responsible for the general decline of the cosmic star formation rate (SFR) in different environments. The mass-normalized integrated SFR within 0.5R_200 in MS 1054-03 also shows evolution compared with other rich clusters at lower redshifts, but the trend is less conclusive if the mass selection effect is considered. A nonnegligible fraction (13%) of cluster members, are forming stars actively and the overdensity of IR galaxies is about 20 compared to the field. It is unlikely that clusters only passively accrete star forming galaxies from the surrounding fields and have their star formation quenched quickly afterward; instead, many cluster galaxies still have large amounts of gas, and their star formation may be enhanced by the interaction with the cluster. 
0704.00954	Sensor Networks with Random Links: Topology Design for Distributed  Consensus	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Soummya Kar, Jose M. F. Moura	 Abstract: In a sensor network, in practice, the communication among sensors is subject to:(1) errors or failures at random times; (3) costs; and(2) constraints since sensors and networks operate under scarce resources, such as power, data rate, or communication. The signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) is usually a main factor in determining the probability of error (or of communication failure) in a link. These probabilities are then a proxy for the SNR under which the links operate. The paper studies the problem of designing the topology, i.e., assigning the probabilities of reliable communication among sensors (or of link failures) to maximize the rate of convergence of average consensus, when the link communication costs are taken into account, and there is an overall communication budget constraint. To consider this problem, we address a number of preliminary issues: (1) model the network as a random topology; (2) establish necessary and sufficient conditions for mean square sense (mss) and almost sure (a.s.) convergence of average consensus when network links fail; and, in particular, (3) show that a necessary and sufficient condition for both mss and a.s. convergence is for the algebraic connectivity of the mean graph describing the network topology to be strictly positive. With these results, we formulate topology design, subject to random link failures and to a communication cost constraint, as a constrained convex optimization problem to which we apply semidefinite programming techniques. We show by an extensive numerical study that the optimal design improves significantly the convergence speed of the consensus algorithm and can achieve the asymptotic performance of a non-random network at a fraction of the communication cost. 
0704.00955	Charges from Attractors	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Nemani V. Suryanarayana, Matthias C. Wapler	 Abstract: We describe how to recover the quantum numbers of extremal black holes from their near horizon geometries. This is achieved by constructing the gravitational Noether-Wald charges which can be used for non-extremal black holes as well. These charges are shown to be equivalent to the U(1) charges of appropriately dimensionally reduced solutions. Explicit derivations are provided for 10 dimensional type IIB supergravity and 5 dimensional minimal gauged supergravity, with illustrative examples for various black hole solutions. We also discuss how to derive the thermodynamic quantities and their relations explicitly in the extremal limit, from the point of view of the near-horizon geometry. We relate our results to the entropy function formalism. 
0704.00956	Nodeless d-wave superconducting pairing due to residual  antiferromagnetism in underdoped Pr$_{2-x}$Ce$_x$CuO$_{4-δ}$	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Tanmoy Das, R. S. Markiewicz, A. Bansil	 Abstract: We have investigated the doping dependence of the penetration depth vs. temperature in electron doped Pr$_{2-x}$Ce$_x$CuO$_{4-\delta}$ using a model which assumes the uniform coexistence of (mean-field) antiferromagnetism and superconductivity. Despite the presence of a $d_{x^2-y^2}$ pairing gap in the underlying spectrum, we find nodeless behavior of the low-$T$ penetration depth in underdoped case, in accord with experimental results. As doping increases, a linear-in-$T$ behavior of the penetration depth, characteristic of d-wave pairing, emerges as the lower magnetic band crosses the Fermi level and creates a nodal Fermi surface pocket. 
0704.00957	One-dimensional Brownian particle systems with rank dependent drifts	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Soumik Pal, Jim Pitman	 Abstract: We study interacting systems of linear Brownian motions whose drift vector at every time point is determined by the relative ranks of the coordinate processes at that time. Our main objective has been to study the long range behavior of the spacings between the Brownian motions arranged in increasing order. For finitely many Brownian motions interacting in this manner, we characterize drifts for which the family of laws of the vector of spacings is tight, and show its convergence to a unique stationary joint distribution given by independent exponential distributions with varying means. We also study one particular countably infinite system, where only the minimum Brownian particle gets a constant upward drift, and prove that independent and identically distributed exponential spacings remain stationary under the dynamics of such a process. Some related conjectures in this direction have also been discussed. 
0704.00958	Simultaneous Swift and REM monitoring of the blazar PKS0537-441 in 2005	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:E. Pian (1), P. Romano (2,3), A. Treves (4), G. Ghisellini (2), S. Covino (2), A. Cucchiara (5), A. Dolcini (4), G. Tagliaferri (2), C. Markwardt (6), S. Campana (2), G. Chincarini (2,3), N. Gehrels (6), P. Giommi (7), L. Maraschi (8), S.D. Vergani (9,10), F.M. Zerbi (2), E. Molinari (2), V. Testa (11), G. Tosti (12), F. Vitali (11), L.A. Antonelli (11), P. Conconi (2), G. Malaspina (2), L. Nicastro (13), E. Palazzi (13), E.J.A. Meurs (9), L. Norci (10) ((1) INAF-Trieste, (2) INAF-Brera/Merate, (3) Univ. Milano-Bicocca, (4) Univ. Insubria, (5) Penn State, (6) GSFC-NASA, (7) ASI ASDC, (8) INAF-Brera/Milano, (9) Dunsink Obs., (10) School of Physical Sciences and NCPST, Dublin, (11) INAF-Rome, (12) Univ. Perugia, (13) INAF-IASF/Bologna)	 Abstract: The blazar PKS0537-441 has been observed by Swift between the end of 2004 and November 2005. The BAT monitored it recurrently for a total of 2.7 Ms, and the XRT and UVOT pointed it on seven occasions for a total of 67 ks, making it one of the AGNs best monitored by Swift. The automatic optical and infrared telescope REM has monitored simultaneously the source at all times. In January-February 2005 PKS0537-441 has been detected at its brightest in optical and X-rays: more than a factor of 2 brighter in X-rays and about a factor 60 brighter in the optical than observed in December 2004. The July 2005 observation recorded a fainter X-ray state. The simultaneous optical state, monitored by both Swift UVOT and REM, is high, and in the VRI bands it is comparable to what was recorded in early January 2005, before the outburst. In November 2005, the source subsided both in X-rays and optical to a quiescent state, having decreased by factors of ~4 and ~60 with respect to the January-February 2005 outburst, respectively. Our monitoring shows an overall well correlated optical and X-ray decay. On the shorter time scales (days or hours), there is no obvious correlation between X-ray and optical variations, but the former tend to be more pronounced, opposite to what is observed on monthly time scales. The widely different amplitude of the long term variability in optical and X-rays is very unusual and makes this observation a unique case study for blazar activity. The spectral energy distributions are interpreted in terms of the synchrotron and inverse Compton mechanisms within a jet where the plasma radiates via internal shocks and the dissipation depends on the distance of the emitting region from the central engine (abridged). 
0704.00959	Theoretical Status of Pentaquarks	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Takumi Doi (Kentucky U., Riken BNL)	 Abstract: We review the current status of the theoretical pentaquark search from the direct QCD calculation. The works from the QCD sum rule and the lattice QCD in the literature are carefully examined. The importance of the framework which can distinguish the exotic pentaquark state (if any) from the NK scattering state is emphasized. 
0704.00960	Generating Squeezed States of Nanomechanical Resonator	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Wen Yi Huo, Gui Lu Long	 Abstract: We propose a scheme for generating squeezed states in solid state circuits consisting of a nanomechanical resonator (NMR), a superconducting Cooper-pair box (CPB) and a superconducting transmission line resonator (STLR). The nonlinear interaction between the NMR and the STLR can be implemented by setting the external biased flux of the CPB at certain values. The interaction Hamiltonian between the NMR and the STLR is derived by performing Fr$\rm\ddot o$hlich transformation on the total Hamiltonian of the combined system. Just by adiabatically keeping the CPB at the ground state, we get the standard parametric down-conversion Hamiltonian. The CPB plays the role of ``nonlinear media", and the squeezed states of the NMR can be easily generated in a manner similar to the three-wave mixing in quantum optics. This is the three-wave mixing in a solid-state circuit. 
0704.00961	On the orbital period of the magnetic Cataclysmic Variable HS 0922+1333	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G. H. Tovmassian (1), S.V. Zharikov (1) ((1) Instituto de Astronomia, Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico, Ensenada, Mexico)	 Abstract: Context: The object HS 0922+1333 was visited briefly in 2002 in a mini survey of low accretion rate polars (LARPs) in order to test if they undergo high luminosity states similar to ordinary polars. On the basis of that short observation the suspicion arose that the object might be an asynchronous polar (Tovmassian et al. 2004). The disparity between the presumed orbital and spin period appeared to be quite unusual. Aims: We performed follow-up observations of the object to resolve the problem. Methods: New simultaneous spectroscopic and photometric observations spanning several years allowed measurements of radial velocities of emission and absorption lines from the secondary star and brightness variations due to synchrotron emission from the primary. Results: New observations show that the object is actually synchronous and its orbital and spin period are equal to 4.04 hours. Conclusions: We identify the source of confusion of previous observations to be a high velocity component of emission line arousing from the stream of matter leaving L1 point. 
0704.00962	The Einstein-Varicak Correspondence on Relativistic Rigid Rotation	History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)	Authors:Tilman Sauer	 Abstract: The historical significance of the problem of relativistic rigid rotation is reviewed in light of recently published correspondence between Einstein and the mathematician Vladimir Varicak from the years 1909 to 1913. 
0704.00963	Nova Geminorum 1912 and the Origin of the Idea of Gravitational Lensing	History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)	Authors:Tilman Sauer	 Abstract: Einstein's early calculations of gravitational lensing, contained in a scratch notebook and dated to the spring of 1912, are reexamined. A hitherto unknown letter by Einstein suggests that he entertained the idea of explaining the phenomenon of new stars by gravitational lensing in the fall of 1915 much more seriously than was previously assumed. A reexamination of the relevant calculations by Einstein shows that, indeed, at least some of them most likely date from early October 1915. But in support of earlier historical interpretation of Einstein's notes, it is argued that the appearance of Nova Geminorum 1912 (DN Gem) in March 1912 may, in fact, provide a relevant context and motivation for Einstein's lensing calculations on the occasion of his first meeting with Erwin Freundlich during a visit in Berlin in April 1912. We also comment on the significance of Einstein's consideration of gravitational lensing in the fall of 1915 for the reconstruction of Einstein's final steps in his path towards general relativity. 
0704.00964	Upper bounds on entangling rates of bipartite Hamiltonians	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Sergey Bravyi	 Abstract: We discuss upper bounds on the rate at which unitary evolution governed by a non-local Hamiltonian can generate entanglement in a bipartite system. Given a bipartite Hamiltonian H coupling two finite dimensional particles A and B, the entangling rate is shown to be upper bounded by c*log(d)*norm(H), where d is the smallest dimension of the interacting particles, norm(H) is the operator norm of H, and c is a constant close to 1. Under certain restrictions on the initial state we prove analogous upper bound for the ancilla-assisted entangling rate with a constant c that does not depend upon dimensions of local ancillas. The restriction is that the initial state has at most two distinct Schmidt coefficients (each coefficient may have arbitrarily large multiplicity). Our proof is based on analysis of a mixing rate -- a functional measuring how fast entropy can be produced if one mixes a time-independent state with a state evolving unitarily. 
0704.00965	Separability Criterion for Multipartite Pure States	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Zongwen Yu, Su Hu	 Abstract: In this paper, we give out some effective criterions which can be used to judge the separability of multipartite pure states. We obtain the relationship between separability and Schmidt decomposable of multipartite pure states in Theorem1. The first criterion derived from Theorem2 dose not need the Schmidt decomposition which is hard to find for multipartite states. Theorem3 is more profound which can be used to deduce Corollary1 which is one of the main results in [1]. Finally, we give out an algorithm which can be used to judge the separability of multipartite pure states effectively. 
0704.00966	Cluster properties from two-particle angular correlations in p+p  collisions at $\sqrt{s}$ = 200 and 410 GeV	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:B.Alver, et al, the PHOBOS Collaboration	 Abstract: We present results on two-particle angular correlations in proton-proton collisions at center of mass energies of 200 and 410 GeV. The PHOBOS experiment at the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider has a uniquely large coverage for charged particles, giving the opportunity to explore the correlations at both short- and long-range scales. At both energies, a complex two-dimensional correlation structure in $\Delta \eta$ and $\Delta \phi$ is observed. In the context of an independent cluster model of short-range correlations, the cluster size and its decay width are extracted from the two-particle pseudorapidity correlation function and compared with previous measurements in proton-proton and proton-antiproton collisions, as well as PYTHIA and HIJING predictions. 
0704.00967	Cross-Layer Optimization of MIMO-Based Mesh Networks with Gaussian  Vector Broadcast Channels	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Jia Liu, Y. Thomas Hou	 Abstract: MIMO technology is one of the most significant advances in the past decade to increase channel capacity and has a great potential to improve network capacity for mesh networks. In a MIMO-based mesh network, the links outgoing from each node sharing the common communication spectrum can be modeled as a Gaussian vector broadcast channel. Recently, researchers showed that ``dirty paper coding'' (DPC) is the optimal transmission strategy for Gaussian vector broadcast channels. So far, there has been little study on how this fundamental result will impact the cross-layer design for MIMO-based mesh networks. To fill this gap, we consider the problem of jointly optimizing DPC power allocation in the link layer at each node and multihop/multipath routing in a MIMO-based mesh networks. It turns out that this optimization problem is a very challenging non-convex problem. To address this difficulty, we transform the original problem to an equivalent problem by exploiting the channel duality. For the transformed problem, we develop an efficient solution procedure that integrates Lagrangian dual decomposition method, conjugate gradient projection method based on matrix differential calculus, cutting-plane method, and subgradient method. In our numerical example, it is shown that we can achieve a network performance gain of 34.4% by using DPC. 
0704.00968	Criteria in the Selection of Target Events for Planetary Microlensing  Follow-Up Observation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Cheongho Han (Chunguk Natl. Univ.)	 Abstract: To provide criteria in the selection of target events preferable for planetary lensing follow-up observations, we investigate the variation of the probability of detecting planetary signals depending on the observables of the lensing magnification and source brightness. In estimating the probability, we consider variation of the photometric precision by using a quantity defined as the ratio of the fractional deviation of the planetary perturbation to the photometric precision. From this investigation, we find consistent result from previous studies that the probability increases with the increase of the magnification. The increase rate is boosted at a certain magnification at which perturbations caused by central caustic begin to occur. We find this boost occurs at moderate magnifications of $A\lesssim 20$, implying that probability can be high even for events with moderate magnifications. The probability increases as the source brightness increases. We find that the probability of events associated with stars brighter than clump giants is not negligible even at magnifications as low as $A\sim 5$. In the absence of rare the prime target of very high-magnification events, we, therefore, recommend to observe events with brightest source stars and highest magnifications among the alerted events. Due to the increase of the source size with the increase of the brightness, however, the probability rapidly drops off beyond a certain magnification, causing detections of low mass ratio planets ($q\lesssim 10^{-4}$) difficult from the observations of events involved with giant stars with magnifications $A\gtrsim 70$. 
0704.00969	The Necessary and Sufficient Conditions of Separability for Bipartite  Pure States in Infinite Dimensional Hilbert Spaces	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Su Hu, Zongwen Yu	 Abstract: In this paper, we present the necessary and sufficient conditions of separability for bipartite pure states in infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces. Let $M$ be the matrix of the amplitudes of $\ket\psi$, we prove $M$ is a compact operator. We also prove $\ket\psi$ is separable if and only if $M$ is a bounded linear operator with rank 1, that is the image of $M$ is a one dimensional Hilbert space. So we have related the separability for bipartite pure states in infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces to an important class of bounded linear operators in Functional analysis which has many interesting properties. 
0704.00970	Magnetic fields in protoplanetary disks	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Mark Wardle (Macquarie University)	 Abstract: Magnetic fields likely play a key role in the dynamics and evolution of protoplanetary discs. They have the potential to efficiently transport angular momentum by MHD turbulence or via the magnetocentrifugal acceleration of outflows from the disk surface, and magnetically-driven mixing has implications for disk chemistry and evolution of the grain population. However, the weak ionisation of protoplanetary discs means that magnetic fields may not be able to effectively couple to the matter. I present calculations of the ionisation equilibrium and magnetic diffusivity as a function of height from the disk midplane at radii of 1 and 5 AU. Dust grains tend to suppress magnetic coupling by soaking up electrons and ions from the gas phase and reducing the conductivity of the gas by many orders of magnitude. However, once grains have grown to a few microns in size their effect starts to wane and magnetic fields can begin to couple to the gas even at the disk midplane. Because ions are generally decoupled from the magnetic field by neutral collisions while electrons are not, the Hall effect tends to dominate the diffusion of the magnetic field when it is able to partially couple to the gas. For a standard population of 0.1 micron grains the active surface layers have a combined column of about 2 g/cm^2 at 1 AU; by the time grains have aggregated to 3 microns the active surface density is 80 g/cm^2. In the absence of grains, x-rays maintain magnetic coupling to 10% of the disk material at 1 AU (150 g/cm^2). At 5 AU the entire disk thickness becomes active once grains have aggregated to 1 micron in size. 
0704.00971	D0-anti-D0 Mixing and CP Violation in D0 vs anti-D0 to K*(+-) K(-+)  Decays	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Zhi-zhong Xing, Shun Zhou	 Abstract: The noteworthy BaBar and Belle evidence for $D^0$-$\bar{D}^0$ mixing motivates us to study its impact on $D^0\to K^{*\pm} K^\mp$ decays and their CP-conjugate processes. We show that both the $D^0$-$\bar{D}^0$ mixing parameters ($x$ and $y$) and the strong phase difference between $\bar{D}^0\to K^{*\pm}K^\mp$ and $D^0\to K^{*\pm}K^\mp$ transitions ($\delta$) can be determined or constrained from the time-dependent measurements of these decay modes. On the $\psi (3770)$ and $\psi (4140)$ resonances at a $\tau$-charm factory, it is even possible to determine or constrain $x$, $y$ and $\delta$ from the time-independent measurements of coherent $(D^0\bar{D}^0) \to (K^{*\pm} K^\mp)(K^{*\pm} K^\mp)$ decays. If the CP-violating phase of $D^0$-$\bar{D}^0$ mixing is significant in a scenario beyond the standard model, it can also be extracted from the $K^{*\pm} K^\mp$ events. 
0704.00972	The dissolution of the vacancy gas and grain boundary diffusion in  crystalline solids	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Fedor V.Prigara	 Abstract: Based on the formula for the number density of vacancies in a solid under the stress or tension, the model of grain boundary diffusion in crystalline solids is developed. We obtain the activation energy of grain boundary diffusion (dependent on the surface tension or the energy of the grain boundary) and also the distributions of vacancies and the diffusing species in the vicinity of the grain boundary. 
0704.00973	X-ray Timing Observations of PSR J1930+1852 in the Crab-like SNR  G54.1+0.3	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Fangjun Lu, Q.Daniel Wang, E. V. Gotthelf, Jinlu Qu	 Abstract: We present new X-ray timing and spectral observations of PSR J1930+1852, the young energetic pulsar at the center of the non-thermal supernova remnant G54.1+0.3. Using data obtained with the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer and Chandra X-ray observatories we have derived an updated timing ephemeris of the 136 ms pulsar spanning 6 years. During this interval, however, the period evolution shows significant variability from the best fit constant spin-down rate of $\dot P = 7.5112(6) \times 10^{-13}$ s s$^{-1}$, suggesting strong timing noise and/or glitch activity. The X-ray emission is highly pulsed ($71\pm5%$ modulation) and is characterized by an asymmetric, broad profile ($\sim 70%$ duty cycle) which is nearly twice the radio width. The spectrum of the pulsed emission is well fitted with an absorbed power law of photon index $\Gamma = 1.2\pm0.2$; this is marginally harder than that of the unpulsed component. The total 2-10 keV flux of the pulsar is $1.7 \times 10^{-12}$ erg cm$^{-2}$ s$^{-1}$. These results confirm PSR J1930+1852 as a typical Crab-like pulsar. 
0704.00974	Vortex-induced topological transition of the bilinear-biquadratic  Heisenberg antiferromagnet on the triangular lattice	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Hikaru Kawamura, Atsushi Yamamoto	 Abstract: The ordering of the classical Heisenberg antiferromagnet on the triangular lattice with the the bilinear-biquadratic interaction is studied by Monte Carlo simulations. It is shown that the model exhibits a topological phase transition at a finite-temperature driven by topologically stable vortices, while the spin correlation length remains finite even at and below the transition point. The relevant vortices could be of three different types, depending on the value of the biquadratic coupling. Implications to recent experiments on the triangular antiferromagnet NiGa$_2$S$_4$ is discussed. 
0704.00975	Recurrence analysis of the Portevin-Le Chatelier effect	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:A. Sarkar, Charles L. Webber Jr., P. Barat, P. Mukherjee	 Abstract: Tensile tests were carried out by deforming polycrystalline samples of Al-2.5%Mg alloy at room temperature in a wide range of strain rates where the Portevin-Le Chatelier (PLC) effect was observed. The experimental stress-time series data have been analyzed using the recurrence analysis technique based on the Recurrence Plot (RP) and the Recurrence Quantification Analysis (RQA) to study the change in the dynamical behavior of the PLC effect with the imposed strain rate. Our study revealed that the RQA is able to detect the unique crossover phenomenon in the PLC dynamics. 
0704.00976	A Topological Glass	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Jean-Pierre Eckmann	 Abstract: We propose and study a model with glassy behavior. The state space of the model is given by all triangulations of a sphere with $n$ nodes, half of which are red and half are blue. Red nodes want to have 5 neighbors while blue ones want 7. Energies of nodes with different numbers of neighbors are supposed to be positive. The dynamics is that of flipping the diagonal of two adjacent triangles, with a temperature dependent probability. We show that this system has an approach to a steady state which is exponentially slow, and show that the stationary state is unordered. We also study the local energy landscape and show that it has the hierarchical structure known from spin glasses. Finally, we show that the evolution can be described as that of a rarefied gas with spontaneous generation of particles and annihilating collisions. 
0704.00977	Anomalous pressure behavior of tangential modes in single-wall carbon  nanotubes	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Wei Yang, Ru-Zhi Wang, Yu-Fang Wang, Xue-Mei Song, Bo Wang, Hui Yan	 Abstract: Using the molecular dynamics simulations and the force constant model we have studied the Raman-active tangential modes (TMs) of a (10, 0) single-wall carbon nanotube (SWNT) under hydrostatic pressure. With increasing pressure, the atomic motions in the three TMs present obvious diversities. The pressure derivative of E1g, A1g, and E2g mode frequency shows an increased value (), a constant value (), and a negative value () above 5.3 GPa, respectively. The intrinsic characteristics of TMs consumedly help to understand the essence of the experimental T band of CNT. The anomalous pressure behavior of the TMs frequencies may be originated from the tube symmetry alteration from D10h to D2h then to C2h. 
0704.00978	Distribution of the molecular absorption in front of the quasar  B0218+357	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Muller, M. Guelin, F. Combes, T. Wiklind	 Abstract: The line of sight to the quasar B0218+357, one of the most studied lensed systems, intercepts a z=0.68 spiral galaxy, which splits its image into two main components A and B, separated by ca. 0.3'', and gives rise to molecular absorption. Although the main absorption component has been shown to arise in front of image A, it is not established whether some absorption from other velocity components is also occuring in front of image B. To tackle this question, we have observed the HCO+(2-1) absorption line during the commissioning phase of the new very extended configuration of the Plateau de Bure Interferometer, in order to trace the position of the absorption as a function of frequency. Visibility fitting of the self-calibrated data allowed us to achieve position accuracy between ~12 and 80 mas per velocity component. Our results clearly demonstrate that all the different velocity components of the HCO+(2-1) absorption arise in front of the south-west image A of the quasar. We estimate a flux ratio fA/fB = 4.2 (-1.0;+1.8 at 106 GHz. 
0704.00979	Cosmogenic neutrinos as a probe of the transition from Galactic to  extragalactic cosmic rays	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Hajime Takami, Kohta Murase, Shigehiro Nagataki, Katsuhiko Sato	 Abstract: There are two promising scenarios that explain the ankle, which is a dip in the spectrum of cosmic rays at $\sim 10^{19}$ eV. A scenario interprets the ankle as the transition from Galactic to extragalactic cosmic rays ({\it ankle-transition scenario}), while the other is that the dip caused by pair production on the cosmic microwave background radiation ({\it proton-dip scenario}). In this paper, we consider whether cosmogenic neutrinos can be a clue to judge which scenario is favored. We calculated the fluxes of cosmogenic neutrinos following these scenarios with plausible physical parameter sets, and found several important features as follows. First of all, the neutrino flux at $\sim 10^{20}$ eV becomes much higher in the ankle-transition scenario as long as the maximum energy of the cosmic rays at sources is sufficiently high. On the other hand, the neutrino spectrum has a characteristic peak at $\sim 10^{16}$ eV in the proton-dip scenario on the condition that extragalactic protons significantly contribute to the observed cosmic rays down to $10^{17}$ eV. Thus, we conclude cosmogenic neutrinos should give us a clue to judge which scenario is favored, unless these features are masked by the neutrino background coming from possible, powerful neutrino sources such as AGNs and GRBs. We also found an interesting feature that the neutrino flux at $\sim 10^{18}$ eV depends only on the cosmological evolution of the cosmic ray sources. That means cosmogenic neutrinos with the energy bring us information on the cosmological evolution of the sources of ultra-high energy cosmic rays. Finally, we compare the fluxes of cosmogenic neutrinos with the expected sensitivity curves of several neutrino detectors, and conclude the detection of cosmogenic neutrinos in the near future is promising. 
0704.00980	Spin state mixing in InAs double quantum dots	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:A. Pfund, I. Shorubalko, K. Ensslin, R. Leturcq	 Abstract: We quantify the contributions of hyperfine and spin-orbit mediated singlet-triplet mixing in weakly coupled InAs quantum dots by electron transport spectroscopy in the Pauli spin blockade regime. In contrast to double dots in GaAs, the spin-orbit coupling is found to be more than two orders of magnitudes larger than the hyperfine mixing energy. It is already effective at magnetic fields of a few mT, where deviations from hyperfine mixing are observed. 
0704.00981	Construction of Complete Embedded Self-Similar Surfaces under Mean  Curvature Flow. Part II	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Xuan Hien Nguyen	 Abstract: We study the Dirichlet problem associated to the equation for self-similar surfaces for graphs over the Euclidean plane with a disk removed. We show the existence of a solution provided the boundary conditions on the boundary circle are small enough and satisfy some symmetries. This is the second step towards the construction of new examples of complete embedded self similar surfaces under mean curvature flow. 
0704.00982	Daemons and DAMA: Their Celestial-Mechanics Interrelations	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Edward M. Drobyshevski, Mikhail E. Drobyshevski	 Abstract: The assumption of the capture by the Solar System of the electrically charged Planckian DM objects (daemons) from the galactic disk is confirmed not only by the St.Petersburg (SPb) experiments detecting particles with V<30 km/s. Here the daemon approach is analyzed considering the positive model independent result of the DAMA/NaI experiment. We explain the maximum in DAMA signals observed in the May-June period to be associated with the formation behind the Sun of a trail of daemons that the Sun captures into elongated orbits as it moves to the apex. The range of significant 2-6-keV DAMA signals fits well the iodine nuclei elastically knocked out of the NaI(Tl) scintillator by particles falling on the Earth with V=30-50 km/s from strongly elongated heliocentric orbits. The half-year periodicity of the slower daemons observed in SPb originates from the transfer of particles that are deflected through ~90 deg into near-Earth orbits each time the particles cross the outer reaches of the Sun which had captured them. Their multi-loop (cross-like) trajectories traverse many times the Earth's orbit in March and September, which increases the probability for the particles to enter near-Earth orbits during this time. Corroboration of celestial mechanics calculations with observations yields ~1e-19 cm2 for the cross section of daemon interaction with the solar matter. 
0704.00983	Form factors of the exotic baryons with isospin I=5/2	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:S. M. Gerasyuta, M. A. Durnev	 Abstract: The electromagnetic form factors of the exotic baryons are calculated in the framework of the relativistic quark model at small and intermediate momentum transfer. The charge radii of the E+++ baryons are determined. 
0704.00984	Transfer of a Polaritonic Qubit through a Coupled Cavity Array	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Sougato Bose, Dimitris G. Angelakis, Daniel Burgarth	 Abstract: We demonstrate a scheme for quantum communication between the ends of an array of coupled cavities. Each cavity is doped with a single two level system (atoms or quantum dots) and the detuning of the atomic level spacing and photonic frequency is appropriately tuned to achieve photon blockade in the array. We show that in such a regime, the array can simulate a dual rail quantum state transfer protocol where the arrival of quantum information at the receiving cavity is heralded through a fluorescence measurement. Communication is also possible between any pair of cavities of a network of connected cavities. 
0704.00985	Architecture for Pseudo Acausal Evolvable Embedded Systems	Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)	Authors:Mohd Abubakr, R.M.Vinay	 Abstract: Advances in semiconductor technology are contributing to the increasing complexity in the design of embedded systems. Architectures with novel techniques such as evolvable nature and autonomous behavior have engrossed lot of attention. This paper demonstrates conceptually evolvable embedded systems can be characterized basing on acausal nature. It is noted that in acausal systems, future input needs to be known, here we make a mechanism such that the system predicts the future inputs and exhibits pseudo acausal nature. An embedded system that uses theoretical framework of acausality is proposed. Our method aims at a novel architecture that features the hardware evolability and autonomous behavior alongside pseudo acausality. Various aspects of this architecture are discussed in detail along with the limitations. 
0704.00986	On reference frames in spacetime and gravitational energy in freely  falling frames	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:J. W. Maluf, F. F. Faria, S. C. Ulhoa	 Abstract: We consider the interpretation of tetrad fields as reference frames in spacetime. Reference frames may be characterized by an antisymmetric acceleration tensor, whose components are identified as the inertial accelerations of the frame (the translational acceleration and the frequency of rotation of the frame). This tensor is closely related to gravitoelectromagnetic field quantities. We construct the set of tetrad fields adapted to observers that are in free fall in the Schwarzschild spacetime, and show that the gravitational energy-momentum constructed out of this set of tetrad fields, in the framework of the teleparallel equivalent of general relatrivity, vanishes. This result is in agreement with the principle of equivalence, and may be taken as a condition for a viable definition of gravitational energy. 
0704.00987	A kind of prediction from string phenomenology: extra matter at low  energy	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:C. Munoz	 Abstract: We review the possibility that the Supersymmetric Standard Model arises from orbifold constructions of the E_8 x E_8 Heterotic Superstring, and the phenomenological properties that such a model should have. In particular, trying to solve the discrepancy between the unification scale predicted by the Heterotic Superstring (g_{GUT}x5.27x10^{17} GeV) and the value deduced from LEP experiments (2x10^{16} GeV), we will predict the presence at low energies of three families of Higgses and vector-like colour triplets. Our approach relies on the Fayet-Iliopoulos breaking, and this is also a crucial ingredient, together with having three Higgs families, to obtain in these models an interesting pattern of fermion masses and mixing angles at the renormalizable lebel. Namely, after the gauge breaking some physical particles appear combined with other states, and the Yukawa couplings are modified in a well controlled way. On the other hand, dangerous flavour-changing neutral currents may appear when fermions of a given charge receive their mass through couplings with several Higgs doublets. We will address this potential problem, finding that viable scenarios can be obtained for a reasonable light Higgs spectrum. 
0704.00988	Evidence for a Massive Protocluster in S255N	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C.J. Cyganowski, C.L. Brogan, T.R. Hunter	 Abstract: S255N is a luminous far-infrared source that contains many indications of active star formation but lacks a prominent near-infrared stellar cluster. We present mid-infrared through radio observations aimed at exploring the evolutionary state of this region. Our observations include 1.3mm continuum and spectral line data from the Submillimeter Array, VLA 3.6cm continuum and 1.3cm water maser data, and multicolor IRAC images from the Spitzer Space Telescope. The cometary morphology of the previously-known UCHII region G192.584-0.041 is clearly revealed in our sensitive, multi-configuration 3.6cm images. The 1.3mm continuum emission has been resolved into three compact cores, all of which are dominated by dust emission and have radii < 7000AU. The mass estimates for these cores range from 6 to 35 Msun. The centroid of the brightest dust core (SMA1) is offset by 1.1'' (2800 AU) from the peak of the cometary UCHII region and exhibits the strongest HC3N, CN, and DCN line emission in the region. SMA1 also exhibits compact CH3OH, SiO, and H2CO emission and likely contains a young hot core. We find spatial and kinematic evidence that SMA1 may contain further multiplicity, with one of the components coincident with a newly-detected H2O maser. There are no mid-infrared point source counterparts to any of the dust cores, further suggesting an early evolutionary phase for these objects. The dominant mid-infrared emission is a diffuse, broadband component that traces the surface of the cometary UCHII region but is obscured by foreground material on its southern edge. An additional 4.5 micron linear feature emanating to the northeast of SMA1 is aligned with a cluster of methanol masers and likely traces a outflow from a protostar within SMA1. Our observations provide direct evidence that S255N is forming a cluster of intermediate to high-mass stars. 
0704.00989	Enumerating limit groups	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:Daniel Groves, Henry Wilton	 Abstract: We prove that the set of limit groups is recursive, answering a question of Delzant. One ingredient of the proof is the observation that a finitely presented group with local retractions (a la Long and Reid) is coherent and, furthermore, there exists an algorithm that computes presentations for finitely generated subgroups. The other main ingredient is the ability to algorithmically calculate centralizers in relatively hyperbolic groups. Applications include the existence of recognition algorithms for limit groups and free groups. 
0704.00990	Dynamics of Size-Selected Gold Nanoparticles Studied by Ultrafast  Electron Nanocrystallography	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Chong-Yu Ruan, Yoshie Murooka, Ramani K. Raman, Ryan A. Murdick	 Abstract: We report the studies of ultrafast electron nanocrystallography on size-selected Au nanoparticles (2-20 nm) supported on a molecular interface. Reversible surface melting, melting, and recrystallization were investigated with dynamical full-profile radial distribution functions determined with sub-picosecond and picometer accuracies. In an ultrafast photoinduced melting, the nanoparticles are driven to a non-equilibrium transformation, characterized by the initial lattice deformations, nonequilibrium electron-phonon coupling, and upon melting, the collective bonding and debonding, transforming nanocrystals into shelled nanoliquids. The displasive structural excitation at premelting and the coherent transformation with crystal/liquid coexistence during photomelting differ from the reciprocal behavior of recrystallization, where a hot lattice forms from liquid and then thermally contracts. The degree of structural change and the thermodynamics of melting are found to depend on the size of nanoparticle. 
0704.00991	A Direct Method for Solving Optimal Switching Problems of  One-Dimensional Diffusions	Optimization and Control (math.OC)	Authors:Masahiko Egami	 Abstract: In this paper, we propose a direct solution method for optimal switching problems of one-dimensional diffusions. This method is free from conjectures about the form of the value function and switching strategies, or does not require the proof of optimality through quasi-variational inequalities. The direct method uses a general theory of optimal stopping problems for one-dimensional diffusions and characterizes the value function as sets of the smallest linear majorants in their respective transformed spaces. 
0704.00992	Compatibility of radial, Lorenz and harmonic gauges	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Elena Magliaro, Claudio Perini, Carlo Rovelli	 Abstract: We observe that the radial gauge can be consistently imposed \emph{together} with the Lorenz gauge in Maxwell theory, and with the harmonic traceless gauge in linearized general relativity. This simple observation has relevance for some recent developments in quantum gravity where the radial gauge is implicitly utilized. 
0704.00993	Late-time tails of a Yang-Mills field on Minkowski and Schwarzschild  backgrounds	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Piotr Bizoń, Tadeusz Chmaj, Andrzej Rostworowski	 Abstract: We study the late-time behavior of spherically symmetric solutions of the Yang-Mills equations on Minkowski and Schwarzschild backgrounds. Using nonlinear perturbation theory we show in both cases that solutions having smooth compactly supported initial data posses tails which decay as $t^{-4}$ at timelike infinity. Moreover, for small initial data on Minkowski background we derive the third-order formula for the amplitude of the tail and confirm numerically its accuracy. 
0704.00994	Mediatic graphs	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:J.-Cl. Falmagne, S. Ovchinnikov	 Abstract: Any medium can be represented as an isometric subgraph of the hypercube, with each token of the medium represented by a particular equivalence class of arcs of the subgraph. Such a representation, although useful, is not especially revealing of the structure of a particular medium. We propose an axiomatic definition of the concept of a `mediatic graph'. We prove that the graph of any medium is a mediatic graph. We also show that, for any non-necessarily finite set S, there exists a bijection from the collection M of all the media on a given set S (of states) onto the collection G of all the mediatic graphs on S. 
0704.00995	Composite Structure and Causality	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Satish D. Joglekar	 Abstract: We study the question of whether a composite structure of elementary particles, with a length scale $1/\Lambda$, can leave observable effects of non-locality and causality violation at higher energies (but $\lesssim \Lambda$). We formulate a model-independent approach based on Bogoliubov-Shirkov formulation of causality. We analyze the relation between the fundamental theory (of finer constituents) and the derived theory (of composite particles). We assume that the fundamental theory is causal and formulate a condition which must be fulfilled for the derived theory to be causal. We analyze the condition and exhibit possibilities which fulfil and which violate the condition. We make comments on how causality violating amplitudes can arise. 
0704.00996	Brane World Black Rings	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Anurag Sahay, Gautam Sengupta	 Abstract: Five dimensional neutral rotating black rings are described from a Randall-Sundrum brane world perspective in the bulk black string framework. To this end we consider a rotating black string extension of a five dimensional black ring into the bulk of a six dimensional Randall-Sundrum brane world with a single four brane. The bulk solution intercepts the four brane in a five dimensional black ring with the usual curvature singularity on the brane. The bulk geodesics restricted to the plane of rotation of the black ring are constructed and their projections on the four brane match with the usual black ring geodesics restricted to the same plane. The asymptotic nature of the bulk geodesics are elucidated with reference to a bulk singularity at the AdS horizon. We further discuss the description of a brane world black ring as a limit of a boosted bulk black 2 brane with periodic identification. 
0704.00997	Stable algebras of entire functions	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Dan Coman, Evgeny A. Poletsky	 Abstract: Suppose that $h$ and $g$ belong to the algebra $\B$ generated by the rational functions and an entire function $f$ of finite order on ${\Bbb C}^n$ and that $h/g$ has algebraic polar variety. We show that either $h/g\in\B$ or $f=q_1e^p+q_2$, where $p$ is a polynomial and $q_1,q_2$ are rational functions. In the latter case, $h/g$ belongs to the algebra generated by the rational functions, $e^p$ and $e^{-p}$. 
0704.00998	Test vectors for trilinear forms, when two representations are  unramified and one is special	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Louise Nyssen (I3M)	 Abstract: Let F be a finite extension of Qp and G be GL(2,F). When V is the tensor product of three admissible, irreducible, finite dimensional representations of G, the space of G-invariant linear forms has dimension at most one. When a non zero linear form exists, one wants to find an element of V which is not in its kernel: this is a test vector. Gross and Prasad found explicit test vectors for some triple of representations. In this paper, others are found, and they almost complete the case when the conductor of each representation is at most 1. 
0704.00999	Generic character sheaves on disconnected groups and character values	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:G. Lusztig	 Abstract: We relate a generic character sheaf on a disconnected reductive group with a character of a representation of the rational points of the group over a finite field extending a result known in the connected case. 
0704.01000	Measurement of D0-D0bar mixing in D0->Ks pi+ pi- decays	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:L.M. Zhang, et al, for the Belle Collaboration	 Abstract: We report a measurement of D0-D0bar mixing in D0->Ks pi+ pi- decays using a time-dependent Dalitz plot analysis. We first assume CP conservation and subsequently allow for CP violation. The results are based on 540 fb$^{-1}$ of data accumulated with the Belle detector at the KEKB $e^+e^-$ collider. Assuming negligible CP violation, we measure the mixing parameters $x=(0.80\pm0.29^{+0.09 +0.10}_{-0.07 -0.14})%$ and $y=(0.33\pm0.24^{+0.08 +0.06}_{-0.12 -0.08})%$, where the errors are statistical, experimental systematic, and systematic due to the Dalitz decay model, respectively. Allowing for CP violation, we obtain the $CPV$ parameters $|q/p|=0.86^{+0.30 +0.06}_{-0.29 -0.03}\pm0.08$ and $\arg(q/p)=(-14^{+16 +5 +2}_{-18 -3 -4})^\circ$. 
0704.01001	Tautological relations in Hodge field theory	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:A. Losev, S. Shadrin, I. Shneiberg	 Abstract: We propose a Hodge field theory construction that captures algebraic properties of the reduction of Zwiebach invariants to Gromov-Witten invariants. It generalizes the Barannikov-Kontsevich construction to the case of higher genera correlators with gravitational descendants. We prove the main theorem stating that algebraically defined Hodge field theory correlators satisfy all tautological relations. From this perspective the statement that Barannikov-Kontsevich construction provides a solution of the WDVV equation looks as the simplest particular case of our theorem. Also it generalizes the particular cases of other low-genera tautological relations proven in our earlier works; we replace the old technical proofs by a novel conceptual proof. 
0704.01002	SBF: multi-wavelength data and models	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Cantiello (WSU, and INAF OA-Teramo), G. Raimondo (INAF-OA Termo), J.P. Blakeslee (WSU), E. Brocato (INAF-OA Teramo), M. Capaccioli (Universita' degli Studi di Napoli)	 Abstract: Recent applications have proved that the Surface Brightness Fluctuations (SBF) technique is a reliable distance indicator in a wide range of distances, and a promising tool to analyze the physical and chemical properties of unresolved stellar systems, in terms of their metallicity and age. We present the preliminary results of a project aimed at studying the evolutionary properties and distance of the stellar populations in external galaxies based on the SBF method. On the observational side, we have succeeded in detecting I-band SBF gradients in six bright ellipticals imaged with the ACS, for these same objects we are now presenting also B-band SBF data. These B-band data are the first fluctuations magnitude measurements for galaxies beyond 10 Mpc. To analyze the properties of stellar populations from the data, accurate SBF models are essential. As a part of this project, we have evaluated SBF magnitudes from Simple Stellar Population (SSP) models specifically optimized for the purpose. A wide range of chemical compositions and ages, as well as different choices of the photometric system have been investigated. All models are available at the Teramo-Stellar Populations Tools web site: www.oa-teramo.inaf.it/SPoT. 
0704.01003	On the choice of coarse variables for dynamics	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:Amit Acharya	 Abstract: Two ideas for the choice of an adequate set of coarse variables allowing approximate autonomous dynamics for practical applications are presented. The coarse variables are meant to represent averaged behavior of a fine-scale autonomous dynamics. 
0704.01004	Simulating CCD images of elliptical galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Cantiello (WSU, and INAF OA-Teramo), G. Raimondo (INAF-OA Termo), E. Brocato (INAF-OA Teramo), J.P. Blakeslee (WSU), M. Capaccioli (Universita' degli Studi di Napoli)	 Abstract: We introduce a procedure developed by the ``Teramo Stellar Populations Tools'' group (Teramo-SPoT), specifically optimized to obtain realistic simulations of CCD images of elliptical galaxies. Particular attention is devoted to include the Surface Brightness Fluctuation (SBF) signal observed in ellipticals and to simulate the Globular Cluster (GC) system in the galaxy, and the distribution of background galaxies present in real CCD frames. In addition to the physical properties of the simulated objects - galaxy distance and brightness profile, luminosity function of GC and background galaxies, etc. - the tool presented allows the user to set some of the main instrumental properties - FoV, zero point magnitude, exposure time, etc. 
0704.01005	Constructions of Kahler-Einstein metrics with negative scalar curvature	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Jian Song, Ben Weinkove	 Abstract: We show that on Kahler manifolds with negative first Chern class, the sequence of algebraic metrics introduced by H. Tsuji converges uniformly to the Kahler-Einstein metric. For algebraic surfaces of general type and orbifolds with isolated singularities, we prove a convergence result for a modified version of Tsuji's iterative construction. 
0704.01006	A Denjoy Theorem for commuting circle diffeomorphisms with mixed Holder  derivatives	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Victor Kleptsyn, Andres Navas	 Abstract: We prove that if d is an integer number bigger than 1 and f_1,...,f_d are commuting circle diffeomorphisms respectively of class C^(1+\tau_k), where \tau_1 + ... + \tau_k > 1, then these maps are simultaneously conjugate to rotations provided that their rotation numbers are independent over the rationals. 
0704.01007	Transient Dynamics of Sparsely Connected Hopfield Neural Networks with  Arbitrary Degree Distributions	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Pan Zhang, Yong Chen	 Abstract: Using probabilistic approach, the transient dynamics of sparsely connected Hopfield neural networks is studied for arbitrary degree distributions. A recursive scheme is developed to determine the time evolution of overlap parameters. As illustrative examples, the explicit calculations of dynamics for networks with binomial, power-law, and uniform degree distribution are performed. The results are good agreement with the extensive numerical simulations. It indicates that with the same average degree, there is a gradual improvement of network performance with increasing sharpness of its degree distribution, and the most efficient degree distribution for global storage of patterns is the delta function. 
0704.01008	Explicit HRS-Tilting	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Behrang Noohi	 Abstract: For an abelian category $A$ equipped with a torsion pair, we give an explicit description for the abelian category $B$ introduced by Happel-Reiten-Smalo, and also for the category of chain complexes $Ch(B)$ and the derived category $D(B)$ of $B$. We also describe the DG structure on $Ch(B)$. As a consequence, we find new proofs of certain results of Happel-Reiten-Smalo. The main ingredient is the category of {\em decorated} complexes. 
0704.01009	Lectures on derived and triangulated categories	K-Theory and Homology (math.KT)	Authors:Behrang Noohi	 Abstract: These notes are meant to provide a rapid introduction to triangulated categories. We start with the definition of an additive category and end with a glimps of tilting theory. Some exercises are included. 
0704.01010	Group actions on algebraic stacks via butterflies	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Behrang Noohi	 Abstract: We introduce an explicit method for studying actions of a group stack G on an algebraic stack X. As an example, we study in detail the case where X=P(n_0,...,n_r) is a weighted projective stack over an arbitrary base S. To this end, we give an explicit description of the group stack of automorphisms of, the weighted projective general linear 2-group PGL(n_0,...,n_r). As an application, we use a result of Colliot-Thelene to show that for every linear algebraic group G over an arbitrary base field k (assumed to be reductive if char(k)>0) such that Pic}(G)=0, every action of G on P(n_0,...,n_r) lifts to a linear action of G on A^{r+1}. 
0704.01011	Modal Extraction in Spatially Extended Systems	Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)	Authors:Kapilanjan Krishan, Andreas Handel, Roman O. Grigoriev, Michael F. Schatz	 Abstract: We describe a practical procedure for extracting the spatial structure and the growth rates of slow eigenmodes of a spatially extended system, using a unique experimental capability both to impose and to perturb desired initial states. The procedure is used to construct experimentally the spectrum of linear modes near the secondary instability boundary in Rayleigh-B\'{e}nard convection. This technique suggests an approach to experimental characterization of more complex dynamical states such as periodic orbits or spatiotemporal chaos. 
0704.01012	Unstable and Stable Galaxy Models	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Yan Guo, Zhiwu Lin	 Abstract: To determine the stability and instability of a given steady galaxy configuration is one of the fundamental problems in the Vlasov theory for galaxy dynamics. In this article, we study the stability of isotropic spherical symmetric galaxy models $f_{0}(E)$, for which the distribution function $f_{0}$ depends on the particle energy $E$ only. In the first part of the article, we derive the first sufficient criterion for linear instability of $f_{0}(E):$ $f_{0}(E)$ is linearly unstable if the second-order operator \[ A_{0}\equiv-\Delta+4\pi\int f_{0}^{\prime}(E)\{I-\mathcal{P}\}dv \] has a negative direction, where $\mathcal{P}$ is the projection onto the function space $\{g(E,L)\},$ $L$ being the angular momentum [see the explicit formula (\ref{A0-radial})]. In the second part of the article, we prove that for the important King model, the corresponding $A_{0}$ is positive definite. Such a positivity leads to the nonlinear stability of the King model under all spherically symmetric perturbations. 
0704.01013	Flops connect minimal models	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yujiro Kawamata	 Abstract: A remark on a paper by Birkar-Cascini-Hacon-McKernan. 
0704.01014	A product formula for volumes of varieties	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yujiro Kawamata	 Abstract: A simple application of the semipositivity. 
0704.01015	An Alternative Topological Field Theory of Generalized Complex Geometry	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Noriaki Ikeda, Tatsuya Tokunaga	 Abstract: We propose a new topological field theory on generalized complex geometry in two dimension using AKSZ formulation. Zucchini's model is $A$ model in the case that the generalized complex structuredepends on only a symplectic structure. Our new model is $B$ model in the case that the generalized complex structure depends on only a complex structure. 
0704.01016	Phenomenological theory of spin excitations in La- and Y-based cuprates	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:T. Zhou, Z. D. Wang	 Abstract: Motivated by recent inelastic neutron scattering (INS) experiments on La-based cuprates and based on the fermiology theories, we study the spin susceptibility for La-based (e.g., La$_{2-x}$Sr$_x$CuO$_4$) and Y-based (e.g., YBa$_2$Cu$_3$O$_y$) cuprates, respectively. The spin excitation in YBa$_2$Cu$_3$O$_y$ is dominated by a sharp resonance peak at the frequency 40 meV in the superconducting state. Below and above the resonance frequency, the incommensurate (IC) peaks develop and the intensity of the peaks decreases dramatically. In the normal state, the resonant excitation does not occur and the IC peaks are merged into commensurate ones. The spin excitation of La$_{2-x}$Sr$_x$CuO$_4$ is significantly different from that of Y-based ones, namely, the resonance peak does not exist due to the decreasing of the superconducting gap and the presence of the possible spin-stripe order. The spectra are only enhanced at the expected resonance frequency (about 18 meV) while it is still incommensurate. On the other hand, another frequency scale at the frequency 55 meV is also revealed, namely the spectra are commensurate and local maximum at this frequency. We elaborate all the results based on the Fermi surface topology and the d-wave superconductivity, and suggest that the spin-stripe order be also important in determining the spin excitation of La-based cuprates. A coherent picture for the spin excitations is presented for Y-based and La-based cuprates. 
0704.01017	Magnetic susceptibility and specific heat of the spin-1/2 Heisenberg  model on the kagome lattice and experimental data on ZnCu3(OH)6Cl2	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Gregoire Misguich, Philippe Sindzingre	 Abstract: We compute the magnetic susceptibility and specific heat of the spin-1/2 Heisenberg model on the kagome lattice with high-temperature expansions and exact diagonalizations. We compare the results with the experimental data on ZnCu3(OH)6Cl2 obtained by Helton et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 107204 (2007)]. Down to k_BT/J~0.2, our calculations reproduce accurately the experimental susceptibility, with an exchange interaction J~190K and a contribution of 3.7% of weakly interacting impurity spins. The comparison between our calculations of the specific heat and the experiments indicate that the low-temperature entropy (below ~20K) is smaller in ZnCu3(OH)6Cl2 than in the kagome Heisenberg model, a likely signature of other interactions in the system. 
0704.01018	Environmental dielectric screening effect on exciton transition energies  in single-walled carbon nanotubes	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Yutaka Ohno, Shinya Iwasaki, Yoichi Murakami, Shigeru Kishimoto, Shigeo Maruyama, Takashi Mizutani	 Abstract: Environmental dielectric screening effects on exciton transition energies in single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) have been studied quantitatively in the range of dielectric constants from 1.0 to 37 by immersing SWNTs bridged over trenches in various organic solvents by means of photoluminescence and the excitation spectroscopies. With increasing environmental dielectric constant ($\epsilon_{\rm env}$), both $E_{11}$ and $E_{22}$ exhibited a redshift by several tens meV and a tendency to saturate at a $\epsilon_{\rm env} \sim 5$ without an indication of significant ($n$,$m$) dependence. The redshifts can be explained by dielectric screening of the repulsive electron-electron interaction. The $\epsilon_{\rm env}$ dependence of $E_{11}$ and $E_{22}$ can be expressed by a simple empirical equation with a power law in $\epsilon_{\rm env}$, $E_{\rm ii} = E_{\rm ii}^{\infty} + A\epsilon_{\rm env}^{-\alpha}$. We also immersed a sample in sodium-dodecyl-sulfate (SDS) solution to investigate the effects of wrapping SWNTs with surfactant. The resultant $E_{11}$ and $E_{22}$, which agree well with Weisman's data [Nano Lett. {\bf 3}, 1235 (2003)], are close to those of $\epsilon_{\rm env}$ of 2. However, in addition to the shift due to dielectric screening, another shift was observed so that the ($2n+m$)-family patterns spread more widely, similar to that of the uniaxial-stress-induced shift. 
0704.01019	Cyclic cohomology of certain nuclear Fréchet and DF algebras	K-Theory and Homology (math.KT)	Authors:Zinaida A. Lykova (Newcastle University, England)	 Abstract: We give explicit formulae for the continuous Hochschild and cyclic homology and cohomology of certain topological algebras. To this end we show that, for a continuous morphism $\phi: \X\to \Y$ of complexes of complete nuclear $DF$-spaces, the isomorphism of cohomology groups $H^n(\phi): H^n(\X) \to H^n(\Y)$ is automatically topological. The continuous cyclic-type homology and cohomology are described up to topological isomorphism for the following classes of biprojective $\hat{\otimes}$-algebras: the tensor algebra $E \hat{\otimes} F$ generated by the duality $(E, F, < \cdot, \cdot >)$ for nuclear Fr\'echet spaces $E$ and $F$ or for nuclear $DF$-spaces $E$ and $F$; nuclear biprojective K\"{o}the algebras $\lambda(P)$ which are Fr\'echet spaces or $DF$-spaces; the algebra of distributions $\mathcal{E}^*(G)$ on a compact Lie group $G$. 
0704.01020	The on-line shortest path problem under partial monitoring	Learning (cs.LG)	Authors:Andras Gyorgy, Tamas Linder, Gabor Lugosi, Gyorgy Ottucsak	 Abstract: The on-line shortest path problem is considered under various models of partial monitoring. Given a weighted directed acyclic graph whose edge weights can change in an arbitrary (adversarial) way, a decision maker has to choose in each round of a game a path between two distinguished vertices such that the loss of the chosen path (defined as the sum of the weights of its composing edges) be as small as possible. In a setting generalizing the multi-armed bandit problem, after choosing a path, the decision maker learns only the weights of those edges that belong to the chosen path. For this problem, an algorithm is given whose average cumulative loss in n rounds exceeds that of the best path, matched off-line to the entire sequence of the edge weights, by a quantity that is proportional to 1/\sqrt{n} and depends only polynomially on the number of edges of the graph. The algorithm can be implemented with linear complexity in the number of rounds n and in the number of edges. An extension to the so-called label efficient setting is also given, in which the decision maker is informed about the weights of the edges corresponding to the chosen path at a total of m << n time instances. Another extension is shown where the decision maker competes against a time-varying path, a generalization of the problem of tracking the best expert. A version of the multi-armed bandit setting for shortest path is also discussed where the decision maker learns only the total weight of the chosen path but not the weights of the individual edges on the path. Applications to routing in packet switched networks along with simulation results are also presented. 
0704.01021	Curvature estimates for Weingarten hypersurfaces in Riemannian manifolds	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Claus Gerhardt	 Abstract: We prove curvature estimates for general curvature functions. As an application we show the existence of closed, strictly convex hypersurfaces with prescribed curvature $F$, where the defining cone of $F$ is $\C_+$. $F$ is only assumed to be monotone, symmetric, homogeneous of degree 1, concave and of class $C^{m,\al}$, $m\ge4$. 
0704.01022	Almost sure functional central limit theorem for non-nestling random  walk in random environment	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Firas Rassoul-Agha, Timo Seppalainen	 Abstract: We consider a non-nestling random walk in a product random environment. We assume an exponential moment for the step of the walk, uniformly in the environment. We prove an invariance principle (functional central limit theorem) under almost every environment for the centered and diffusively scaled walk. The main point behind the invariance principle is that the quenched mean of the walk behaves subdiffusively. 
0704.01023	The Effect of Annealing Temperature on Statistical Properties of $WO_3$  Surface	Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)	Authors:G. R. Jafari, A. A. Saberi, R. Azimirad, A. Z. Moshfegh, S. Rouhani	 Abstract: We have studied the effect of annealing temperature on the statistical properties of $WO_3$ surface using atomic force microscopy techniques (AFM). We have applied both level crossing and structure function methods. Level crossing analysis indicates an optimum annealing temperature of around 400$^oC$ at which the effective area of the $WO_3$ thin film is maximum, whereas composition of the surface remains stoichiometric. The complexity of the height fluctuation of surfaces was characterized by roughness, roughness exponent and lateral size of surface features. We have found that there is a phase transition at around 400$^oC$ from one set to two sets of roughness parameters. This happens due to microstructural changes from amorphous to crystalline structure in the samples that has been already found experimentally. 
0704.01024	Determination of Low-Energy Parameters of Neutron--Proton Scattering on  the Basis of Modern Experimental Data from Partial-Wave Analyses	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:V. A. Babenko, N. M. Petrov	 Abstract: The triplet and singlet low-energy parameters in the effective-range expansion for neutron--proton scattering are determined by using the latest experimental data on respective phase shifts from the SAID nucleon--nucleon database. The results differ markedly from the analogous parameters obtained on the basis of the phase shifts of the Nijmegen group and contradict the parameter values that are presently used as experimental ones. The values found with the aid of the phase shifts from the SAID nucleon--nucleon database for the total cross section for the scattering of zero-energy neutrons by protons, $\sigma_{0}=20.426 $b, and the neutron--proton coherent scattering length, $f=-3.755 $fm, agree perfectly with the experimental cross-section values obtained by Houk, $\sigma_{0}=20.436\pm 0.023 $b, and experimental scattering-length values obtained by Houk and Wilson, $f=-3.756\pm 0.009 $fm, but they contradict cross-section values of $\sigma_{0}=20.491\pm 0.014 $b according to Dilg and coherent-scattering-length values of $f=-3.7409\pm 0.0011 $fm according to Koester and Nistler. 
0704.01025	Simulation of Ultra High Energy Neutrino Interactions in Ice and Water	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S.Bevan, S.Danaher, J.Perkin, S.Ralph, C.Rhodes, L.Thompson, T.Sloan, D.Waters	 Abstract: The CORSIKA program, usually used to simulate extensive cosmic ray air showers, has been adapted to work in a water or ice medium. The adapted CORSIKA code was used to simulate hadronic showers produced by neutrino interactions. The simulated showers have been used to study the spatial distribution of the deposited energy in the showers. This allows a more precise determination of the acoustic signals produced by ultra high energy neutrinos than has been possible previously. The properties of the acoustic signals generated by such showers are described. 
0704.01026	The Measure for the Multiverse and the Probability for Inflation	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Miao Li, Yi Wang	 Abstract: We investigate the measure problem in the framework of inflationary cosmology. The measure of the history space is constructed and applied to inflation models. Using this measure, it is shown that the probability for the generalized single field slow roll inflation to last for $N$ e-folds is suppressed by a factor $\exp(-3N)$, and the probability for the generalized $n$-field slow roll inflation is suppressed by a much larger factor $\exp(-3nN)$. Some non-inflationary models such as the cyclic model do not suffer from this difficulty. 
0704.01027	$B_s^0 \to η^{(\prime)} η^{(\prime)}$ decays in the pQCD approach	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Xin Liu, Zhen-Jun Xiao, Hui-Sheng Wang	 Abstract: We calculate the CP averaged branching ratios and CP-violating asymmetries for $B_s^0 \to \eta \eta, \eta \eta^\prime$ and $\eta^\prime \eta^\prime$ decays in the perturbative QCD (pQCD) approach here. The pQCD predictions for the CP-averaged branching ratios are $Br(B_s^0 \to \eta \eta) = \left (14.2^{+18.0}_{-7.5}) \times 10^{-6}$, $Br(B_s^0 \to \eta \eta^\prime)= \left (12.4 ^{+18.2}_{-7.0}) \times 10^{-6}$, and $Br(B_s^0 \to \eta^{\prime} \eta^{\prime}) = \left (9.2^{+15.3}_{-4.9}) \times 10^{-6}$, which agree well with those obtained by employing the QCD factorization approach and also be consistent with available experimental upper limits. The gluonic contributions are small in size: less than 7% for $B_s \to \eta \eta$ and $ \eta \eta^\prime$ decays, and around 18% for $B_s \to \eta' \eta'$ decay. The CP-violating asymmetries for three decays are very small: less than 3% in magnitude. 
0704.01028	A neural network approach to ordinal regression	Learning (cs.LG)	Authors:Jianlin Cheng	 Abstract: Ordinal regression is an important type of learning, which has properties of both classification and regression. Here we describe a simple and effective approach to adapt a traditional neural network to learn ordinal categories. Our approach is a generalization of the perceptron method for ordinal regression. On several benchmark datasets, our method (NNRank) outperforms a neural network classification method. Compared with the ordinal regression methods using Gaussian processes and support vector machines, NNRank achieves comparable performance. Moreover, NNRank has the advantages of traditional neural networks: learning in both online and batch modes, handling very large training datasets, and making rapid predictions. These features make NNRank a useful and complementary tool for large-scale data processing tasks such as information retrieval, web page ranking, collaborative filtering, and protein ranking in Bioinformatics. 
0704.01029	Controlling surface statistical properties using bias voltage: Atomic  force microscopy and stochastic analysis	Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)	Authors:P. Sangpour, G. R. Jafari, O. Akhavan, A.Z. Moshfegh, M. Reza Rahimi Tabar	 Abstract: The effect of bias voltages on the statistical properties of rough surfaces has been studied using atomic force microscopy technique and its stochastic analysis. We have characterized the complexity of the height fluctuation of a rough surface by the stochastic parameters such as roughness exponent, level crossing, and drift and diffusion coefficients as a function of the applied bias voltage. It is shown that these statistical as well as microstructural parameters can also explain the macroscopic property of a surface. Furthermore, the tip convolution effect on the stochastic parameters has been examined. 
0704.01030	Etched Glass Surfaces, Atomic Force Microscopy and Stochastic Analysis	Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)	Authors:G.R. Jafari, M. Reza Rahimi Tabar, A. Iraji zad, G. Kavei	 Abstract: The effect of etching time scale of glass surface on its statistical properties has been studied using atomic force microscopy technique. We have characterized the complexity of the height fluctuation of a etched surface by the stochastic parameters such as intermittency exponents, roughness, roughness exponents, drift and diffusion coefficients and find their variations in terms of the etching time. 
0704.01031	Measurements of Single and Double Spin Asymmetry in \textit{pp} Elastic  Scattering in the CNI Region with Polarized Hydrogen Gas Jet Target	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:H. Okada, I. Alekseev, A. Bravar, G. Bunce, S. Dhawan, K.O. Eyser, R. Gill, W. Haeberli, H. Huang, O. Jinnouchi, Y. Makdishi, I. Nakagawa, A. Nass, N. Saito, E. Stephenson, D. Sviridia, T. Wise, J. Wood, A. Zelenski	 Abstract: Precise measurements of the single spin asymmetry, $A_N$ and the double spin asymmetry, $A_{NN}$, in proton-proton (\textit{pp}) elastic scattering in the region of four-momentum transfer squared $0.001 < -t < 0.032 ({\rm GeV}/c)^2$ have been performed using a polarized atomic hydrogen gas jet target and the RHIC polarized proton beam at 24 GeV/$c$ and 100 GeV/$c$. The polarized gaseous proton target allowed us to achieve the measurement of $A_{NN}$ in the CNI region for the first time. Our results of $A_N$ and $A_{NN}$ provide significant constraints to determine the magnitude of poorly known hadronic single and double spin-flip amplitudes at this energy. 
0704.01032	Theta constants identities for Jacobians of cyclic 3-sheeted covers of  the sphere and representations of the symmetric group	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Yaacov Kopeliovich	 Abstract: We find identities between theta constants with rational characteristics evaluated at period matrix of $R,$ a cyclic 3 sheeted cover of the sphere with $3k$ branch points $\lambda_1...\lambda_{3k}.$ These identities follow from Thomae formula \cite{BR}. This formula expresses powers of theta constants as polynomials in $\lambda_1...\lambda_{3k}.$ We apply the representation of the symmetric group to find relations between the polynomials and hence between the associated theta constants. 
0704.01033	Topology of spaces of equivariant symplectic embeddings	Symplectic Geometry (math.SG)	Authors:Alvaro Pelayo	 Abstract: We compute the homotopy type of the space of T^n-equivariant symplectic embeddings from the standard 2n-dimensional ball of some fixed radius into a 2n-dimensional symplectic-toric manifold M, and use this computation to define a Z-valued step function on the positive real line which is an invariant of the symplectic-toric type of M. We conclude with a discussion of the partially equivariant case of this result. 
0704.01034	Toric symplectic ball packing	Symplectic Geometry (math.SG)	Authors:Alvaro Pelayo	 Abstract: We define and solve the toric version of the symplectic ball packing problem, in the sense of listing all 2n-dimensional symplectic-toric manifolds which admit a perfect packing by balls embedded in a symplectic and torus equivariant fashion. In order to do this we first describe a problem in geometric-combinatorics which is equivalent to the toric symplectic ball packing problem. Then we solve this problem using arguments from Convex Geometry and Delzant theory. Applications to symplectic blowing-up are also presented, and some further questions are raised in the last section. 
0704.01035	Anisotropic brane gravity with a confining potential	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:M. Heydari-Fard, H. R. Sepangi	 Abstract: We consider an anisotropic brane world with Bianchi type I and V geometries where the mechanism of confining the matter on the brane is through the use of a confining potential. The resulting equations on the anisotropic brane are modified by an extra term that may be interpreted as the x-matter, providing a possible phenomenological explanation for the accelerated expansion of the universe. We obtain the general solution of the field equations in an exact parametric form for both Bianchi type I and V space-times. In the special case of a Bianchi type I the solutions of the field equations are obtained in an exact analytic form. Finally, we study the behavior of the observationally important parameters. 
0704.01036	Maximal ball packings of symplectic-toric manifolds	Symplectic Geometry (math.SG)	Authors:Alvaro Pelayo, Benjamin Schmidt	 Abstract: Let M be a symplectic-toric manifold of dimension at least four. This paper investigates the so called symplectic ball packing problem in the toral equivariant setting. We show that the set of toric symplectic ball packings of M admits the structure of a convex polytope. Previous work of the first author shows that up to equivalence, only CP^1 x CP^1 and CP^2 admit density one packings when n=2 and only CP^n admits density one packings when n>2. In contrast, we show that for a fixed n>=2 and each r in (0, 1), there are uncountably many inequivalent 2n-dimensional symplectic-toric manifolds with a maximal toric packing of density r. This result follows from a general analysis of how the densities of maximal packings change while varying a given symplectic-toric manifold through a family of symplectic-toric manifolds that are equivariantly diffeomorphic but not equivariantly symplectomorphic. 
0704.01037	Controlled collisions of a single atom and ion guided by movable  trapping potentials	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Z. Idziaszek, T. Calarco, P. Zoller	 Abstract: We consider a system composed of a trapped atom and a trapped ion. The ion charge induces in the atom an electric dipole moment, which attracts it with an r^{-4} dependence at large distances. In the regime considered here, the characteristic range of the atom-ion interaction is comparable or larger than the characteristic size of the trapping potential, which excludes the application of the contact pseudopotential. The short-range part of the interaction is described in the framework of quantum-defect theory, by introducing some short-range parameters, which can be related to the s-wave scattering length. When the separation between traps is changed we observe trap-induced shape resonances between molecular bound states and vibrational states of the external trapping potential. Our analysis is extended to quasi-one-dimensional geometries, when the scattering exhibit confinement-induced resonances, similar to the ones studied before for short-range interactions. For quasi-one-dimensional systems we investigate the effects of coupling between the center of mass and relative motion, which occurs for different trapping frequencies of atom and ion traps. Finally, we show how the two types of resonances can be employed for quantum state control and spectroscopy of atom-ion molecules. 
0704.01038	Counting BPS operators in N=4 SYM	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:F.A. Dolan	 Abstract: The free field partition function for a generic U(N) gauge theory, where the fundamental fields transform in the adjoint representation, is analysed in terms of symmetric polynomial techniques. It is shown by these means how this is related to the cycle polynomial for the symmetric group and how the large N result may be easily recovered. Higher order corrections for finite N are also discussed in terms of symmetric group characters. For finite N, the partition function involving a single bosonic fundamental field is recovered and explicit counting of multi-trace quarter BPS operators in free \N=4 super Yang Mills discussed, including a general result for large N. The partition function for BPS operators in the chiral ring of \N=4 super Yang Mills is analysed in terms of plane partitions. Asymptotic counting of BPS primary operators with differing R-symmetry charges is discussed in both free \N=4 super Yang Mills and in the chiral ring. Also, general and explicit expressions are derived for SU(2) gauge theory partition functions, when the fundamental fields transform in the adjoint, for free field theory. 
0704.01039	Symplectic homology, autonomous Hamiltonians, and Morse-Bott moduli  spaces	Symplectic Geometry (math.SG)	Authors:Frédéric Bourgeois, Alexandru Oancea	 Abstract: We define Floer homology for a time-independent, or autonomous Hamiltonian on a symplectic manifold with contact type boundary, under the assumption that its 1-periodic orbits are transversally nondegenerate. Our construction is based on Morse-Bott techniques for Floer trajectories. Our main motivation is to understand the relationship between linearized contact homology of a fillable contact manifold and symplectic homology of its filling. 
0704.01040	Recent Results on Thermal Casimir Force between Dielectrics and Related  Problems	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:B. Geyer, G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.M. Mostepanenko	 Abstract: We review recent results obtained in the physics of the thermal Casimir force acting between two dielectrics, dielectric and metal, and between metal and semiconductor. The detailed derivation for the low-temperature behavior of the Casimir free energy, pressure and entropy in the configuration of two real dielectric plates is presented. For dielectrics with finite static dielectric permittivity it is shown that the Nernst heat theorem is satisfied. Hence, the Lifshitz theory of the van der Waals and Casimir forces is demonstrated to be consistent with thermodynamics. The nonzero dc conductivity of dielectric plates is proved to lead to a violation of the Nernst heat theorem and, thus, is not related to the phenomenon of dispersion forces. The low-temperature asymptotics of the Casimir free energy, pressure and entropy are derived also in the configuration of one metal and one dielectric plate. The results are shown to be consistent with thermodynamics if the dielectric plate possesses a finite static dielectric permittivity. If the dc conductivity of a dielectric plate is taken into account this results in the violation of the Nernst heat theorem. We discuss both the experimental and theoretical results related to the Casimir interaction between metal and semiconductor with different charge carrier density. Discussions in the literature on the possible influence of spatial dispersion on the thermal Casimir force are analyzed. In conclusion, the conventional Lifshitz theory taking into account only the frequency dispersion remains the reliable foundation for the interpretation of all present experiments. 
0704.01041	Higher dimensional conundra	Metric Geometry (math.MG)	Authors:Steven G. Krantz	 Abstract: We study asymptotics of various Euclidean geometric phenomena as the dimension tend to infinity. 
0704.01042	Entangling and disentangling capacities of nonlocal maps	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Berry Groisman	 Abstract: Entangling and disentangling capacities are the key manifestation of the nonlocal content of a quantum operation. A lot of effort has been put recently into investigating (dis)entangling capacities of unitary operations, but very little is known about capacities of non-unitary operations. Here we investigate (dis)entangling capacities of unital CPTP maps acting on two qubits. 
0704.01043	On the Kolmogorov-Chaitin Complexity for short sequences	Computational Complexity (cs.CC)	Authors:Jean-Paul Delahaye, Hector Zenil	 Abstract: A drawback of Kolmogorov-Chaitin complexity (K) as a function from s to the shortest program producing s is its noncomputability which limits its range of applicability. Moreover, when strings are short, the dependence of K on a particular universal Turing machine U can be arbitrary. In practice one can approximate it by computable compression methods. However, such compression methods do not always provide meaningful approximations--for strings shorter, for example, than typical compiler lengths. In this paper we suggest an empirical approach to overcome this difficulty and to obtain a stable definition of the Kolmogorov-Chaitin complexity for short sequences. Additionally, a correlation in terms of distribution frequencies was found across the output of two models of abstract machines, namely unidimensional cellular automata and deterministic Turing machine. 
0704.01044	The redshift and geometrical aspect of photons	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Hongjun Pan	 Abstract: The cosmological redshift phenomenon can be described by the dark matter field fluid model, the results deduced from this model agree very well with the observations. The observed cosmological redshift of light depends on both the speed of the emitter and the distance between the emitter and the observer. If the emitter moves away from us, a redshift is observed. If the emitter moves towards us, whether a redshift, a blueshift or no shift is observed will depend on the speed vs. the distance. If the speed is in the range of c(exp[-beta*D]-1) < v < 0, a redshift is observed; if the speed equals c(exp[-beta*D]-1), no shift is observed; if the speed v less than c(exp[-beta*D]-1), a blueshift is observed. A redshift will be always observed in all directions for any celestial objects as long as their distance from us is large enough. Therefore, many more redshifts than blueshifts should be observed for galaxies and supernovae, etc in the sky. This conclusion agrees with current observations. The estimated value of the redshift constant beta of the dark matter field fluid is in the range of 10^(-3) ~ 10^(-5)/Mpc. A large redshift value from a distant celestial object may not necessarily indicate that it has a large receding speed. Based on the redshift effect of dark matter field fluid, it is concluded that at least in time average all photons have the same geometry (size and shape) in all inertial reference frames and do not have length contraction effect. 
0704.01045	Cool Stars in Hot Places	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. T. Megeath (University of Toledo), E. Gaidos (University of Hawaii), J. J. Hester (Arizona State University), F. C. Adams (University of Michigan), J. Bally (University of Colorado), J.-E. Lee (University of California Los Angeles), S. Wolk (Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics)	 Abstract: During the last three decades, evidence has mounted that star and planet formation is not an isolated process, but is influenced by current and previous generations of stars. Although cool stars form in a range of environments, from isolated globules to rich embedded clusters, the influences of other stars on cool star and planet formation may be most significant in embedded clusters, where hundreds to thousands of cool stars form in close proximity to OB stars. At the cool stars 14 meeting, a splinter session was convened to discuss the role of environment in the formation of cool stars and planetary systems; with an emphasis on the ``hot'' environment found in rich clusters. We review here the basic results, ideas and questions presented at the session. We have organized this contribution into five basic questions: what is the typical environment of cool star formation, what role do hot star play in cool star formation, what role does environment play in planet formation, what is the role of hot star winds and supernovae, and what was the formation environment of the Sun? The intention is to review progress made in addressing each question, and to underscore areas of agreement and contention. 
0704.01046	Heights and metrics with logarithmic singularities	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Gerard Freixas i Montplet	 Abstract: We prove lower bound and finiteness properties for arakelovian heights with respect to pre-log-log hermitian ample line bundles. These heights were introduced by Burgos, Kramer and K\"uhn, in their extension of the arithmetic intersection theory of Gillet and Soul\'e, aimed to deal with hermitian vector bundles equipped with metrics admitting suitable logarithmic singularities. Our results generalize the corresponding properties for the heights of Bost-Gillet-Soul\'e, as well as the properties established by Faltings for heights of points attached to hermitian line bundles whose metrics have logarithmic singularities. We also discuss various geometric constructions where such pre-log-log hermitian ample line bundles naturally arise. 
0704.01047	Bar-Halo Friction in Galaxies III: Particle Number Requirements for  Simulations	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. A. Sellwood (Rutgers University)	 Abstract: The question whether the dark matter halo density in the centers of galaxies could be changed through interactions with a rotating bar in the baryonic disk is of considerable current interest. While N-body simulations have been used to address this question, it has also been claimed that results from such simulations cannot be trusted. Based on a perturbative treatment of resonant exchanges between orbits and a rotating perturbation, Weinberg & Katz contend that N-body simulations of this process will not reveal the continuum result unless many more than the usual numbers of particles are employed. Here I report a study designed to examine their contention, finding results that show no dependence on the number of particles over the range usually employed up to that advocated by these authors. I show that my results are independent of all numerical parameters, and that field methods perform equally with grid methods in this respect. I also identify the reasons that the required particle number suggested by Weinberg & Katz is excessive. 
0704.01048	Anisotropic quasiparticle renormalization in Na0.73CoO2: role of  inter-orbital interactions and magnetic correlations	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:J. Geck, S.V. Borisenko, H. Berger, H. Eschrig, J. Fink, M. Knupfer, K. Koepernik, A. Koitzsch, A.A. Kordyuk, V.B. Zabolotnyy, B. Buechner	 Abstract: We report an angular resolved photoemission study of Na0.73CoO2 where it is found that the renormalization of the quasiparticle (QP) dispersion changes dramatically upon a rotation from GM to GK. The comparison of the experimental data to the calculated band structure reveals that the QP-renormalization is most pronounced along the GK-direction, while it is significantly weaker along the GM-direction. We discuss the observed anisotropy in terms of multiorbital effects and point out the relevance of magnetic correlations for the band structure of Na0.73CoO2. 
0704.01049	Charmless Three-body Decays of B Mesons	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Hai-Yang Cheng, Chun-Khiang Chua, Amarjit Soni	 Abstract: Charmless 3-body decays of B mesons are studied in the framework of the factorization approach. The nonresonant contributions arising from $B\to P_1P_2$ transitions are evaluated using heavy meson chiral perturbation theory (HMChPT). The momentum dependence of nonresonant amplitudes is assumed to be in the exponential form $e^{-\alpha_{NR}} p_B\cdot(p_i+p_j)}$ so that the HMChPT results are recovered in the soft meson limit $p_i, p_j\to 0$. In addition, we have identified another large source of the nonresonant signal in the matrix elements of scalar densities, e.g. $<K\bar K|\bar ss|0>$, which can be constrained from the decay $\bar B^0\to K_SK_SK_S$ or $B^-\to K^-K_SK_S$. The intermediate vector meson contributions to 3-body decays are identified through the vector current, while the scalar meson resonances are mainly associated with the scalar density. Their effects are described in terms of the Breit-Wigner formalism. Our main results are: (i) All KKK modes are dominated by the nonresonant background. The predicted branching ratios of $K^+K^-K_{S(L)}$, $K^+K^-K^-$ and $K^-K_SK_S$ modes are consistent with the data within errors. (ii) Although the penguin-dominated $B^0\to K^+K^-K_{S}$ decay is subject to a potentially significant tree pollution, its effective $\sin 2\beta$ is very similar to that of the $K_SK_SK_S$ mode. However, direct CP asymmetry of the former, being of order -4%, is more prominent than the latter. (iii) For $B\to K\pi\pi$ decays, we found sizable nonresonant contributions in $K^-\pi^+\pi^-$ and $\bar K^0\pi^+\pi^-$ modes, in agreement with the Belle measurements but larger than the BaBar result. 
0704.01050	Electrical transport properties of polar heterointerface between KTaO3  and SrTiO3	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:A. Kalabukhov, R. Gunnarsson, T. Claeson, D. Winkler	 Abstract: Electrical transport of a polar heterointerface between two insulating perovskites, KTaO3 and SrTiO3, is studied. It is formed between a thin KTaO3 film deposited on a top of TiO2- terminated (100) SrTiO3 substrate. The resulting (KO)1-(TiO2)0 heterointerface is expected to be hole-doped according to formal valences of K (1+) and Ti (4+). We observed electrical conductivity and mobility in the KTaO3/SrTiO3 similar to values measured earlier in electron-doped LaAlO3/SrTiO3 heterointerfaces. However, the sign of the charge carriers in KTaO3/SrTiO3 obtained from the Hall measurements is negative. The result is an important clue to the true origin of the doping at perovskite oxide hetero-interfaces. 
0704.01051	The Angular Separation of the Components of the Cepheid AW Per	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D. Massa, N. R. Evans	 Abstract: The 6.4 day classical Cepheid AW Per is a spectroscopic binary with a period of 40 years. Analyzing the centroids of HST/STIS spectra obtained in November 2001, we have determined the angular separation of the binary system. Although we currently have spatially resolved data for a single epoch in the orbit, the success of our approach opens the possibility of determining the inclination, sini, for the system if the measurements are repeated at additional epochs. Since the system is potentially a double lined spectroscopic binary, the combination of spectroscopic orbits for both components and the visual orbit would give the distance to the system and the masses of its components, thereby providing a direct measurement of a Cepheid mass. 
0704.01052	Transverse field effect in graphene ribbons	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:D. S. Novikov	 Abstract: It is shown that a graphene ribbon, a ballistic strip of carbon monolayer, may serve as a quantum wire whose electronic properties can be continuously and reversibly controlled by an externally applied transverse voltage. The electron bands of armchair-edge ribbons undergo dramatic transformations: The Fermi surface fractures, Fermi velocity and effective mass change sign, and excitation gaps are reduced by the transverse field. These effects are manifest in the conductance plateaus, van Hove singularities, thermopower, and activated transport. The control over one-dimensional bands may help enhance effects of electron correlations, and be utilized in device applications. 
0704.01053	Domain Switching Kinetics in Disordered Ferroelectric Thin Films	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:J. Y. Jo, H. S. Han, J.-G. Yoon, T. K. Song, S.-H. Kim, T. W. Noh	 Abstract: We investigated domain kinetics by measuring the polarization switching behaviors of polycrystalline Pb(Zr,Ti)O$_{3}$ films, which are widely used in ferroelectric memory devices. Their switching behaviors at various electric fields and temperatures could be explained by assuming the Lorentzian distribution of domain switching times. We viewed the switching process under an electric field as a motion of the ferroelectric domain through a random medium, and we showed that the local field variation due to dipole defects at domain pinning sites could explain the intriguing distribution. 
0704.01054	Geometry of Time, Axiom of Choice and Neuro-Biological Quantum Zeno  Effect	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Moninder Singh Modgil	 Abstract: Role of axiom of choice in quantum measurement is highlighted by suggesting that the conscious observer chooses the outcome from a mixed state. Further, in a periodically repeating universe, these outcomes must be pre-recorded within the non-physical conscious observers, which precludes free will. Free will however exists in a universe with open time, It is suggested that psychology's binding problem is connected with Cantor's original definition of set. Influence of consciousness on material outcome through quantum processes is discussed and interesting constraints derived. For example, it is predicted that quantum mechanical brain states should get frozen if monitored at sufficiently small space-time intervals - a neuro-biological version of the so called quantum zeno effect, which has been verified in domain of micro-physics. Existence of a very small micro-mini-black-hole in brain is predicted as a space-time structural interface between consciousness and brain, whose vaporization explains mass-loss reported in weighing experiments, conducting during the moments of death. 
0704.01055	Probing the Structure of Gamma-Ray Burst Jets with Steep Decay Phase of  their Early X-ray Afterglows	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Kentaro Takami (1), Ryo Yamazaki (1), Takanori Sakamoto (2), Goro Sato (2) ((1) Hiroshima Univ., (2) NASA/GSFC)	 Abstract: We show that the jet structure of gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) can be investigated with the tail emission of the prompt GRB. The tail emission which we consider is identified as a steep-decay component of the early X-ray afterglow observed by the X-ray Telescope onboard Swift. Using a Monte Carlo method, we derive, for the first time, the distribution of the decay index of the GRB tail emission for various jet models. The new definitions of the zero of time and the time interval of a fitting region are proposed. These definitions for fitting the light curve lead us an unique definition of the decay index, which is useful to investigate the structure of the GRB jet. We find that if the GRB jet has a core-envelope structure, the predicted distribution of the decay index of the tail has a wide scatter and has multiple peaks, which cannot be seen for the case of the uniform and the Gaussian jet. Therefore, the decay index distribution tells us the information on the jet structure. Especially, if we observe events whose decay index is less than about 2, both the uniform and the Gaussian jet models will be disfavored according to our simulation study. 
0704.01056	Black Hole's Life at colliders	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Seong Chan Park	 Abstract: In the series of papers by Ida, Oda and Park, the complete description of Hawking radiation to the brane localized Standard Model fields from mini black holes in the low energy gravity scenarios are obtained. Here we briefly review what we have learned in those papers. 
0704.01057	Working with 2s and 3s	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Diego Dominici	 Abstract: We establish an equivalent condition to the validity of the Collatz conjecture, using elementary methods. We derive some conclusions and show several examples of our results. We also offer a variety of exercises, problems and conjectures. 
0704.01058	Dark energy, gravitation and supernovae	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Pilar Ruiz-Lapuente	 Abstract: The discovery of the acceleration of the rate of expansion of the Universe fosters new explorations of the behavior of gravitation theories in the cosmological context. Either the GR framework is valid but a cosmic component with a negative equation of state is dominating the energy--matter contents or the Universe is better described at large by a theory that departs from GR. In this review we address theoretical alternatives that have been explored through supernovae. 
0704.01059	Decartes' Perfect Lens	General Mathematics (math.GM)	Authors:Mark B. Villarino	 Abstract: We give a new, elementary, purely analytical development of \textsc{Descartes}' theorem that a smooth connected surface is a perfect focusing lens if and only if it is a connected subset of the ovoid obtained by revolving a cartesian oval around its axis of symmetry. 
0704.01060	Deformation of Dijkgraaf-Vafa Relation via Spontaneously Broken N=2  Supersymmetry	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Hiroshi Itoyama, Kazunobu Maruyoshi	 Abstract: It is known that the fermionic shift symmetry of the N=1, U(N) gauge model with a superpotential of an adjoint chiral superfield is replaced by the second (spontaneously broken) supersymmetry in the N=2, U(N) gauge model with a prepotential and Fayet-Iliopoulos parameters. Based on a diagrammatic analysis, we demonstrate how the well-known form of the effective superpotential in the former model is modified in the latter. A set of two equations on the one-point functions stating the Konishi anomaly is modified accordingly. 
0704.01061	Comment on "Chiral Suppression of Scalar Glueball Decay"	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Kuang-Ta Chao, Xiao-Gang He, Jian-Ping Ma	 Abstract: Comment on ``Chiral Suppression of Scalar Glueball Decay'' 
0704.01062	Scaling p_T distributions for p and \bar{p} produced in Au+Au collisions  at RHIC	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:W.C. Zhang, Y. Zeng, W.X. Nie, L.L. Zhu, C.B. Yang	 Abstract: With the experimental data from STAR and PHENIX on the centrality dependence of the $p_T$ spectra of protons and anti-protons produced at mid-rapidity in Au+Au collisions at 200 GeV, we show that for protons and anti-protons there exists a scaling distribution independent of the colliding centrality. The scaling functions can also describe data from BRAHMS for both proton and anti-proton spectra at $y=2.2$ and 3.2. The scaling behaviors are shown to be incompatible with the usual string fragmentation scenario for particle production. 
0704.01063	SiO maser observations of a wide dust-temperature range sample	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jun-ichi Nakashima (ASIAA), Shuji Deguchi (Nobeyama Radio Obs.)	 Abstract: We present the results of SiO line observations of a sample of known SiO maser sources covering a wide dust-temperature range. The aim of the present research is to investigate the causes of the correlation between infrared colors and SiO maser intensity ratios among different transition lines. We observed in total 75 SiO maser sources with the Nobeyama 45m telescope quasi-simultaneously in the SiO J=1-0 v=0, 1, 2, 3, 4 and J=2-1 v=1, 2 lines. We also observed the sample in the 29SiO J=1-0 v=0 and J=2-1 v=0, and 30SiO J=1-0 v=0 lines, and the H2O 6(1,6)-5(2,3) line. As reported in previous papers, we confirmed that the intensity ratios of the SiO J=1-0 v=2 to v=1 lines clearly correlate with infrared colors. In addition, we found possible correlation between infrared colors and the intensity ratios of the SiO J=1-0 v=3 to v=1&2 lines. 
0704.01064	Excitation Spectrum Gap and Spin-Wave Stiffness of XXZ Heisenberg  Chains: Global Renormalization-Group Calculation	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Ozan S. Sariyer, A. Nihat Berker, Michael Hinczewski	 Abstract: The anisotropic XXZ spin-1/2 Heisenberg chain is studied using renormalization-group theory. The specific heats and nearest-neighbor spin-spin correlations are calculated thoughout the entire temperature and anisotropy ranges in both ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic regions, obtaining a global description and quantitative results. We obtain, for all anisotropies, the antiferromagnetic spin-liquid spin-wave velocity and the Isinglike ferromagnetic excitation spectrum gap, exhibiting the spin-wave to spinon crossover. A number of characteristics of purely quantum nature are found: The in-plane interaction s_i^x s_j^x + s_i^y s_j^y induces an antiferromagnetic correlation in the out-of-plane s_i^z component, at higher temperatures in the antiferromagnetic XXZ chain, dominantly at low temperatures in the ferromagnetic XXZ chain, and, in-between, at all temperatures in the XY chain. We find that the converse effect also occurs in the antiferromagnetic XXZ chain: an antiferromagnetic s_i^z s_j^z interaction induces a correlation in the s_i^xy component. As another purely quantum effect, (i) in the antiferromagnet, the value of the specific heat peak is insensitive to anisotropy and the temperature of the specific heat peak decreases from the isotropic (Heisenberg) with introduction of either type (Ising or XY) anisotropy; (ii) in complete contrast, in the ferromagnet, the value and temperature of the specific heat peak increase with either type of anisotropy. 
0704.01065	Precise Control of Band Filling in NaxCoO2	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Daisuke Yoshizumi, Yuji Muraoka, Yoshihiko Okamoto, Yoko Kiuchi, Jun-Ichi Yamaura, Masahito Mochizuki, Masao Ogata, Zenji Hiroi	 Abstract: Electronic properties of the sodium cobaltate NaxCoO2 are systematically studied through a precise control of band filling. Resistivity, magnetic susceptibility and specific heat measurements are carried out on a series of high-quality polycrystalline samples prepared at 200 C with Na content in a wide range of 0.35 =< x =< 0.70. It is found that dramatic changes in electronic properties take place at a critical Na concentration x* that lies between 0.58 and 0.59, which separates a Pauli paramagnetic and a Curie-Weiss metals. It is suggested that at x* the Fermi level touches the bottom of the a1g band at the gamma point, leading to a crucial change in the density of states across x* and the emergence of a small electron pocket around the gamma point for x > x*. 
0704.01066	Observations on degenerate saddle point problems	Numerical Analysis (math.NA)	Authors:Andrew V. Knyazev	 Abstract: We investigate degenerate saddle point problems, which can be viewed as limit cases of standard mixed formulations of symmetric problems with large jumps in coefficients. We prove that they are well-posed in a standard norm despite the degeneracy. By wellposedness we mean a stable dependence of the solution on the right-hand side. A known approach of splitting the saddle point problem into separate equations for the primary unknown and for the Lagrange multiplier is used. We revisit the traditional Ladygenskaya--Babu\v{s}ka--Brezzi (LBB) or inf--sup condition as well as the standard coercivity condition, and analyze how they are affected by the degeneracy of the corresponding bilinear forms. We suggest and discuss generalized conditions that cover the degenerate case. The LBB or inf--sup condition is necessary and sufficient for wellposedness of the problem with respect to the Lagrange multiplier under some assumptions. The generalized coercivity condition is necessary and sufficient for wellposedness of the problem with respect to the primary unknown under some other assumptions. We connect the generalized coercivity condition to the positiveness of the minimum gap of relevant subspaces, and propose several equivalent expressions for the minimum gap. Our results provide a foundation for research on uniform wellposedness of mixed formulations of symmetric problems with large jumps in coefficients in a standard norm, independent of the jumps. Such problems appear, e.g., in numerical simulations of composite materials made of components with contrasting properties. 
0704.01067	Expected Planets in Globular Clusters	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Noam Soker, Alon Hershenhorn (Technion, Israel)	 Abstract: We argue that all transient searches for planets in globular clusters have a very low detection probability. Planets of low metallicity stars typically do not reside at small orbital separations. The dependance of planetary system properties on metallicity is clearly seen when the quantity Ie=Mp[a(1-e)]^2 is considered; Mp, a, e, are the planet mass, semi-major axis, and eccentricity, respectively. In high metallicity systems there is a concentration of systems at high and low values of Ie, with a low-populated gap near Ie~0.3 M_J AU^2, where M_J is Jupiter's mass. In low metallicity systems the concentration is only at the higher range of I_e, with a tail to low values of Ie. Therefore, it is still possible that planets exist around main sequence stars in globular clusters, although at small numbers because of the low metallicity, and at orbital periods of >~10 days. We discuss the implications of our conclusions on the role that companions can play in the evolution of their parent stars in globular clusters, e.g., influencing the distribution of horizontal branch stars on the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram of some globular clusters, and in forming low mass white dwarfs. 
0704.01068	Fast paths in large-scale dynamic road networks	Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)	Authors:Giacomo Nannicini, Philippe Baptiste, Gilles Barbier, Daniel Krob, Leo Liberti	 Abstract: Efficiently computing fast paths in large scale dynamic road networks (where dynamic traffic information is known over a part of the network) is a practical problem faced by several traffic information service providers who wish to offer a realistic fast path computation to GPS terminal enabled vehicles. The heuristic solution method we propose is based on a highway hierarchy-based shortest path algorithm for static large-scale networks; we maintain a static highway hierarchy and perform each query on the dynamically evaluated network. 
0704.01069	Optical Zeno Gate: Bounds for Fault Tolerant Operation	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Patrick M. Leung, Timothy C. Ralph	 Abstract: In principle the Zeno effect controlled-sign gate of Franson et al's (PRA 70, 062302, 2004) is a deterministic two-qubit optical gate. However, when realistic values of photon loss are considered its fidelity is significantly reduced. Here we consider the use of measurement based quantum processing techniques to enhance the operation of the Zeno gate. With the help of quantum teleportation, we show that it is possible to achieve a Zeno CNOT gate (GC-Zeno gate) that gives (near) unit fidelity and moderate probability of success of 0.76 with a one-photon to two-photon transmission ratio $\kappa=10^4$. We include some mode-mismatch effects and estimate the bounds on the mode overlap and $\kappa$ for which fault tolerant operation would be possible. 
0704.01070	Differential Diversity Reception of MDPSK over Independent Rayleigh  Channels with Nonidentical Branch Statistics and Asymmetric Fading Spectrum	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Hua Fu, Pooi Yuen Kam	 Abstract: This paper is concerned with optimum diversity receiver structure and its performance analysis of differential phase shift keying (DPSK) with differential detection over nonselective, independent, nonidentically distributed, Rayleigh fading channels. The fading process in each branch is assumed to have an arbitrary Doppler spectrum with arbitrary Doppler bandwidth, but to have distinct, asymmetric fading power spectral density characteristic. Using 8-DPSK as an example, the average bit error probability (BEP) of the optimum diversity receiver is obtained by calculating the BEP for each of the three individual bits. The BEP results derived are given in exact, explicit, closed-form expressions which show clearly the behavior of the performance as a function of various system parameters. 
0704.01071	Bulk viscosity of superfluid neutron stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. E. Gusakov (Ioffe Institute)	 Abstract: The hydrodynamics, describing dynamical effects in superfluid neutron stars, essentially differs from the standard one-fluid hydrodynamics. In particular, we have four bulk viscosity coefficients in the theory instead of one. In this paper we calculate these coefficients, for the first time, assuming they are due to non-equilibrium beta-processes (such as modified or direct Urca process). The results of our analysis are used to estimate characteristic damping times of sound waves in superfluid neutron stars. It is demonstrated that all four bulk viscosity coefficients lead to comparable dissipation of sound waves and should be considered on the same footing. 
0704.01072	A Faddeev Calculation for Pentaquark $Θ^+$ in Diquark Picture with  Nambu-Jona-Lasinio Type Interaction	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:H. Mineo, J.A. Tjon, K. Tsushima, S.N. Yang	 Abstract: A Bethe-Salpeter-Faddeev (BSF) calculation is performed for the pentaquark $\Theta^+$ in the diquark picture of Jaffe and Wilczek in which $\Theta^+$ is a diquark-diquark-${\bar s}$ three-body system. Nambu-Jona-Lasinio (NJL) model is used to calculate the lowest order diagrams in the two-body scatterings of ${\bar s}D$ and $D D$. With the use of coupling constants determined from the meson sector, we find that ${\bar s}D$ interaction is attractive while $DD$ interaction is repulsive, and there is no bound $\frac 12^+$ pentaquark state. A bound pentaquark $\Theta^+$ can only be obtained with unphysically strong vector mesonic coupling constants. 
0704.01073	Shell-mediated tunnelling between (anti-)de Sitter vacua	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Stefano Ansoldi, Lorenzo Sindoni	 Abstract: We give an extensive study of the tunnelling between arbitrary (anti-)de Sitter spacetimes separated by an infinitesimally thin relativistic shell in arbitrary spacetime dimensions. In particular, we find analytically an exact expression for the tunnelling amplitude. The detailed spacetime structures that can arise are discussed, together with an effective "regularization scheme" for "before tunnelling" configurations. 
0704.01074	Markov basis and Groebner basis of Segre-Veronese configuration for  testing independence in group-wise selections	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Satoshi Aoki, Takayuki Hibi, Hidefumi Ohsugi, Akimichi Takemura	 Abstract: We consider testing independence in group-wise selections with some restrictions on combinations of choices. We present models for frequency data of selections for which it is easy to perform conditional tests by Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods. When the restrictions on the combinations can be described in terms of a Segre-Veronese configuration, an explicit form of a Gr\"obner basis consisting of moves of degree two is readily available for performing a Markov chain. We illustrate our setting with the National Center Test for university entrance examinations in Japan. We also apply our method to testing independence hypotheses involving genotypes at more than one locus or haplotypes of alleles on the same chromosome. 
0704.01075	New Terms for the Compact Form of Electroweak Chiral Lagrangian	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Hong-Hao Zhang, Wen-Bin Yan, J. K. Parry, Xue-Song Li	 Abstract: The compact form of the electroweak chiral Lagrangian is a reformulation of its original form and is expressed in terms of chiral rotated electroweak gauge fields, which is crucial for relating the information of underlying theories to the coefficients of the low-energy effective Lagrangian. However the compact form obtained in previous works is not complete. In this letter we add several new chiral invariant terms to it and discuss the contributions of these terms to the original electroweak chiral Lagrangian. 
0704.01076	Seeing maximum entropy from the principle of virtual work	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Qiuping A. Wang (ISMANS)	 Abstract: We propose an extension of the principle of virtual work of mechanics to random dynamics of mechanical systems. The total virtual work of the interacting forces and inertial forces on every particle of the system is calculated by considering the motion of each particle. Then according to the principle of Lagrange-d'Alembert for dynamical equilibrium, the vanishing ensemble average of the virtual work gives rise to the thermodynamic equilibrium state with maximization of thermodynamic entropy. This approach establishes a close relationship between the maximum entropy approach for statistical mechanics and a fundamental principle of mechanics, and constitutes an attempt to give the maximum entropy approach, considered by many as only an inference principle based on the subjectivity of probability and entropy, the status of fundamental physics law. 
0704.01077	Microlocal Asymptotic Analysis in Algebras of Generalized Functions	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Antoine Delcroix (AOC), Michael Oberguggenberger (ISBE), Jean-André Marti (GTSI)	 Abstract: We introduce a new type of local and microlocal asymptotic analysis in algebras of generalized functions, based on the presheaf properties of those algebras and on the properties of their elements with respect to a regularizing parameter. Contrary to the more classical frequential analysis based on the Fourier transform, we can describe a singular asymptotic spectrum which has good properties with respect to nonlinear operations. In this spirit we give several examples of propagation of singularities through nonlinear operators. 
0704.01078	1H-NMR Study on the Magnetic Order in the Mixture of Two Spin Gap  Systems (CH3)2CHNH3CuCl3 and (CH3)2CHNH3CuBr3	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Keishi Kanada, Takehiro Saito, Akira Oosawa, Takayuki Goto, Takao Suzuki	 Abstract: The antiferromagnetic ordering in the solid-solution of the two spin-gap systems (CH3)2CHNH3CuCl3 and (CH3)2CHNH3CuBr3 has been investigated by 1H-NMR. The sample with the Cl-content ratio x=0.85 showed a clear splitting in spectra below TN=13.5 K, where the spin-lattice relaxation rate T1-1 showed a diverging behavior. The critical exponent of the temperature dependence of the hyperfine field is found to be 0.33. 
0704.01079	Instanton Induced Neutrino Majorana Masses in CFT Orientifolds with  MSSM-like spectra	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:L.E. Ibanez, A.N. Schellekens, A. M. Uranga	 Abstract: Recently it has been shown that string instanton effects may give rise to neutrino Majorana masses in certain classes of semi-realistic string compactifications. In this paper we make a systematic search for supersymmetric MSSM-like Type II Gepner orientifold constructions admitting boundary states associated with instantons giving rise to neutrino Majorana masses and other L- and/or B-violating operators. We analyze the zero mode structure of D-brane instantons on general type II orientifold compactifications, and show that only instantons with O(1) symmetry can have just the two zero modes required to contribute to the 4d superpotential. We however discuss how the addition of fluxes and/or possible non-perturbative extensions of the orientifold compactifications would allow also instantons with $Sp(2)$ and U(1) symmetries to generate such superpotentials. In the context of Gepner orientifolds with MSSM-like spectra, we find no models with O(1) instantons with just the required zero modes to generate a neutrino mass superpotential. On the other hand we find a number of models in one particular orientifold of the Gepner model $(2,4,22,22)$ with $Sp(2)$ instantons with a few extra uncharged non-chiral zero modes which could be easily lifted by the mentioned effects. A few more orientifold examples are also found under less stringent constraints on the zero modes. This class of $Sp(2)$ instantons have the interesting property that R-parity conservation is automatic and the flavour structure of the neutrino Majorana mass matrices has a simple factorized form. 
0704.01080	The solutions of the N-identical quantum harmonic oscillators  interacting with each other through the harmonic potential	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Phongpichit Channuie	 Abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to some mistakes 
0704.01081	Asymmetry of in-medium rho-mesons as a signature of Cherenkov effects	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:I.M. Dremin, V.A. Nechitailo	 Abstract: Cherenkov gluons may be responsible for the asymmetry of dilepton mass spectra near rho-meson observed in experiment. They can be produced only in the low-mass wing of the resonance. Therefore the dilepton mass spectra are flattened there and their peak is slightly shifted to lower masses compared with the in-vacuum rho-meson mass. This feature must be common for all resonances. 
0704.01082	Superconductivity and magnetic order in CeRhIn$_{5}$; spectra of  coexistence	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:J.V. Alvarez, Felix Yndurain	 Abstract: We discuss the fixed-point Hamiltonian and the spectrum of excitations of a quasi-bidimensional electronic system supporting simultaneously antiferromamagnetic ordering and superconductivity. The coexistence of these two order parameters in a single phase is possible because the magnetic order is linked to the formation of a spin density wave, and its order parameter is not associated to a spectral gap but to an energy shift of the paramagnetic bands. This peculiarity entails several distinct features in the phase diagram and the spectral properties of the model, which may have been observed in CeRhIn$_5$. Apart from the coexistence, we find an abrupt suppression of the spin density wave when the superconducting and magnetic ordering temperatures are equal. The divergence of the cyclotron mass extracted from de Haas-van Alphen experiments is also analyzed in the same framework. 
0704.01083	B-pairs and (phi,Gamma)-modules	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Laurent Berger	 Abstract: Main change from v1 : theorem C has been modified, see remark 3.1.7 (2). We study the category of B-pairs (W_e,W_dR^+) where W_e is a free B_cris^{phi=1}-module with a semilinear and continuous action of G_K and where W_dR^+ is a G_K-stable B_dR^+ -lattice in B_dR \otimes W_e. This category contains the category of p-adic representations and is naturally equivalent to the category of all (phi,Gamma)-modules over the Robba ring. 
0704.01084	Vacuum Energy and Renormalization on the Edge	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:M. Asorey, D. Garcia-Alvarez, J. M. Munoz-Castaneda	 Abstract: The vacuum dependence on boundary conditions in quantum field theories is analysed from a very general viewpoint. From this perspective the renormalization prescriptions not only imply the renormalization of the couplings of the theory in the bulk but also the appearance of a flow in the space of boundary conditions. For regular boundaries this flow has a large variety of fixed points and no cyclic orbit. The family of fixed points includes Neumann and Dirichlet boundary conditions. In one-dimensional field theories pseudoperiodic and quasiperiodic boundary conditions are also RG fixed points. Under these conditions massless bosonic free field theories are conformally invariant. Among all fixed points only Neumann boundary conditions are infrared stable fixed points. All other conformal invariant boundary conditions become unstable under some relevant perturbations. In finite volumes we analyse the dependence of the vacuum energy along the trajectories of the renormalization group flow providing an interesting framework for dark energy evolution. On the contrary, the renormalization group flow on the boundary does not affect the leading behaviour of the entanglement entropy of the vacuum in one-dimensional conformally invariant bosonic theories. 
0704.01085	Gauge Mediation in String Theory	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Teruhiko Kawano, Hirosi Ooguri, Yutaka Ookouchi	 Abstract: We show that a large class of phenomenologically viable models for gauge mediation of supersymmetry breaking based on meta-stable vacua can be realized in local Calabi-Yau compactifications of string theory. 
0704.01086	Higher harmonics increase LISA's mass reach for supermassive black holes	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:K.G. Arun, Bala R. Iyer, B. S. Sathyaprakash, Siddhartha Sinha	 Abstract: Current expectations on the signal to noise ratios and masses of supermassive black holes which the Laser Interferometer Space Antenna (LISA) can observe are based on using in matched filtering only the dominant harmonic of the inspiral waveform at twice the orbital frequency. Other harmonics will affect the signal-to-noise ratio of systems currently believed to be observable by LISA. More significantly, inclusion of other harmonics in our matched filters would mean that more massive systems that were previously thought to be {\it not} visible in LISA should be detectable with reasonable SNRs. Our estimates show that we should be able to significantly increase the mass reach of LISA and observe the more commonly occurring supermassive black holes of masses $\sim 10^8M_\odot.$ More specifically, with the inclusion of all known harmonics LISA will be able to observe even supermassive black hole coalescences with total mass $\sim 10^8 M_\odot (10^9M_\odot)$ (and mass-ratio 0.1) for a low frequency cut-off of $10^{-4}{\rm Hz}$ $(10^{-5}{\rm Hz})$ with an SNR up to $\sim 60$ $(\sim 30)$ at a distance of 3 Gpc. This is important from the astrophysical viewpoint since observational evidence for the existence of black holes in this mass range is quite strong and binaries containing such supermassive black holes will be inaccessible to LISA if one uses as detection templates only the dominant harmonic. 
0704.01087	EPR, Bell, Schrodinger's cat, and the Monty Hall Paradox	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Doron Cohen	 Abstract: The purpose of this manuscript is to provide a short pedagogical explanation why "quantum collapse" is not a metaphysical event, by pointing out the analogy with a "classical collapse" which is associated with the Monty Hall Paradox. 
0704.01088	Extended Comment on "One-Range Addition Theorems for Coulomb Interaction  Potential and Its Derivatives" by I. I. Guseinov (Chem. Phys. Vol. 309  (2005), pp. 209 - 213)	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Ernst Joachim Weniger	 Abstract: Addition theorems are principal tools that express a function $f (\bm{r} \pm \bm{r}')$ in terms of products of other functions that only depend on either $\bm{r}$ or $\bm{r}'$. The best known example of such an addition theorem is the Laplace expansion of the Coulomb potential which possesses a characteristic two-range form. Guseinov [Chem. Phys. {\bf 309}, 209 - 213 (2005)] derived one-range addition theorems for the Coulomb potential via the limit $\beta \to 0$ in previously derived one-range addition theorems for the Yukawa potential $\exp \bigl(-\beta | \bm{r}-\bm{r}'| \bigr) /| \bm{r}-\bm{r}'|$. At first sight, this looks like a remarkable achievement, but from a mathematical point of view, Guseinov's work is at best questionable and in some cases fundamentally flawed. One-range addition theorems are expansions in terms of functions that are complete and orthonormal in a given Hilbert space, but Guseinov replaced the complete and orthonormal functions by nonorthogonal Slater-type functions and rearranged the resulting expansions. This is a dangerous operation whose validity must be checked. It is shown that the one-center limit $\bm{r}' = \bm{0}$ of Guseinov's rearranged Yukawa addition theorems as well as of several other addition theorems does not exist. Moreover, the Coulomb potential does not belong to any of the Hilbert spaces implicitly used by Guseinov. Accordingly, one-range addition theorems for the Coulomb potential diverge in the mean. Instead, these one-range addition theorems have to interpreted as expansions of generalized functions in the sense of Schwartz that converge weakly in suitable functionals. 
0704.01089	Representative Ensembles in Statistical Mechanics	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:V.I. Yukalov	 Abstract: The notion of representative statistical ensembles, correctly representing statistical systems, is strictly formulated. This notion allows for a proper description of statistical systems, avoiding inconsistencies in theory. As an illustration, a Bose-condensed system is considered. It is shown that a self-consistent treatment of the latter, using a representative ensemble, always yields a conserving and gapless theory. 
0704.01090	Bouncing Universe with Quintom Matter	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Yi-Fu Cai, Taotao Qiu, Yun-Song Piao, Mingzhe Li, Xinmin Zhang	 Abstract: The bouncing universe provides a possible solution to the Big Bang singularity problem. In this paper we study the bouncing solution in the universe dominated by the Quintom matter with an equation of state (EoS) crossing the cosmological constant boundary. We will show explicitly the analytical and numerical bouncing solutions in three types of models for the Quintom matter with an phenomenological EoS, the two scalar fields and a scalar field with a modified Born-Infeld action. 
0704.01091	On the weight structure of cyclic codes over $GF(q)$, $q>2$	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:I. Mullayeva	 Abstract: The interrelation between the cyclic structure of an ideal, i.e., a cyclic code over Galois field $GF(q)$, $q>2$, and its classes of proportional elements is considered. This relation is used in order to define the code's weight structure. The equidistance conditions of irreducible nonprimitive codes over GF(q) are given. Besides that, the minimum distance for some class of nonprimitive cyclic codes is found. 
0704.01092	Simplifying additivity problems using direct sum constructions	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Motohisa Fukuda, Michael M. Wolf	 Abstract: We study the additivity problems for the classical capacity of quantum channels, the minimal output entropy and its convex closure. We show for each of them that additivity for arbitrary pairs of channels holds iff it holds for arbitrary equal pairs, which in turn can be taken to be unital. In a similar sense, weak additivity is shown to imply strong additivity for any convex entanglement monotone. The implications are obtained by considering direct sums of channels (or states) for which we show how to obtain several information theoretic quantities from their values on the summands. This provides a simple and general tool for lifting additivity results. 
0704.01093	Modulational instability in nonlocal Kerr-type media with random  parameters	Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)	Authors:E.V. Doktorov, M.A. Molchan	 Abstract: Modulational instability of continuous waves in nonlocal focusing and defocusing Kerr media with stochastically varying diffraction (dispersion) and nonlinearity coefficients is studied both analytically and numerically. It is shown that nonlocality with the sign-definite Fourier images of the medium response functions suppresses considerably the growth rate peak and bandwidth of instability caused by stochasticity. Contrary, nonlocality can enhance modulational instability growth for a response function with negative-sign bands. 
0704.01094	SUBARU HDS Observations of a Balmer-Dominated Shock in Tycho's Supernova  Remnant	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jae-Joon Lee, Bon-Chul Koo, John Raymond, Parviz Ghavamian, Tae-Soo Pyo, Akito Ta jitsu, Masahiko Hayashi	 Abstract: We present an Ha spectral observation of a Balmer-dominated shock on the eastern side of Tycho's supernova remnant using the Subaru Telescope. Utilizing the High Dispersion Spectrograph (HDS), we measure the spatial variation of the line profile between preshock and postshock gas. Our observation clearly shows a broadening and centroid shift of the narrow-component postshock Ha line relative to the Ha emission from the preshock gas. The observation supports the existence of a thin precursor where gas is heated and accelerated ahead of the shock. Furthermore, the spatial profile of the emission ahead of the Balmer filament shows a gradual gradient in the Ha intensity and line width ahead of the shock. We propose that this region (~10^16 cm) is likely to be the spatially resolved precursor. The line width increases from ~30 up to ~45 km/s, and its central velocity shows a redshift of ~5 km/s across the shock front. The characteristics of the precursor are consistent with a cosmic-ray precursor, although the possibility of a fast neutral precursor is not ruled out. 
0704.01095	Orbits of tori extended by finite groups and their polynomial hulls: the  case of connected complex orbits	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:V.M. Gichev	 Abstract: Let $V$ be a complex linear space, $G\subset\GL(V)$ be a compact group. We consider the problem of description of polynomial hulls $\wh{Gv}$ for orbits $Gv$, $v\in V$, assuming that the identity component of $G$ is a torus $T$. The paper contains a universal construction for orbits which satisfy the inclusion $Gv\subset T^\bbC v$ and a characterization of pairs $(G,V)$ such that it is true for a generic $v\in V$. The hull of a finite union of $T$-orbits in $T^\bbC v$ can be distinguished in $\clos T^\bbC v$ by a finite collection of inequalities of the type $\abs{z_1}^{s_1}...\abs{z_n}^{s_n}\leq c$. In particular, this is true for $Gv$. If powers in the monomials are independent of $v$, $Gv\subset T^\bbC v$ for a generic $v$, and either the center of $G$ is finite or $T^\bbC$ has an open orbit, then the space $V$ and the group $G$ are products of standard ones; the latter means that $G=S_nT$, where $S_n$ is the group of all permutations of coordinates and $T$ is either $\bbT^n$ or $\SU(n)\cap\bbT^n$, where $\bbT^n$ is the torus of all diagonal matrices in $\rU(n)$. The paper also contains a description of polynomial hulls for orbits of isotropy groups of bounded symmetric domains. This result is already known, but we formulate it in a different form and supply with a shorter proof. 
0704.01096	Formation of a sonic horizon in isotropically expanding Bose-Einstein  condensates	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Yasunari Kurita, Takao Morinari	 Abstract: We propose a simple experiment to create a sonic horizon in isotropically trapped cold atoms within currently available experimental techniques. Numerical simulation of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation shows that the sonic horizon should appear by making the condensate expand. The expansion is triggered by changing the interaction which can be controlled by the Feshbach resonance in real experiments. The sonic horizon is shown to be quasi-static for sufficiently strong interaction or large number of atoms. The characteristic temperature that is associated with particle emission from the horizon, which corresponds to the Hawking temperature in an ideal situation, is estimated to be a few nK. 
0704.01097	Zero-temperature resistive transition in Josephson-junction arrays at  irrational frustration	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Enzo Granato	 Abstract: We use a driven Monte Carlo dynamics in the phase representation to determine the linear resistivity and current-voltage scaling of a two-dimensional Josephson-junction array at an irrational flux quantum per plaquette. The results are consistent with a phase-coherence transition scenario where the critical temperature vanishes. The linear resistivity is nonzero at any finite temperatures but nonlinear behavior sets in at a temperature-dependent crossover current determined by the thermal critical exponent. From a dynamic scaling analysis we determine this critical exponent and the thermally activated behavior of the linear resistivity. The results are in agreement with earlier calculations using the resistively shunted-junction model for the dynamics of the array. The linear resistivity behavior is consistent with some experimental results on arrays of superconducting grains but not on wire networks, which we argue have been obtained in a current regime above the crossover current. 
0704.01098	Protostellar clusters in intermediate-mass (IM) star forming regions	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Fuente, C. Ceccarelli, R. Neri, T. Alonso-Albi, P. Caselli, D. Johnstone, E.F. van Dishoeck, F. Wyrowski	 Abstract: The transition between the low density groups of T Tauri stars and the high density clusters around massive stars occurs in the intermediate-mass (IM) range (M$_*$$\sim$2--8 M$_\odot$). High spatial resolution studies of IM young stellar objects (YSO) can provide important clues to understand the clustering in massive star forming regions. Aims: Our aim is to search for clustering in IM Class 0 protostars. The high spatial resolution and sensitivity provided by the new A configuration of the Plateau de Bure Interferometer (PdBI) allow us to study the clustering in these nearby objects. Methods: We have imaged three IM Class 0 protostars (Serpens-FIRS 1, IC 1396 N, CB 3) in the continuum at 3.3 and 1.3mm using the PdBI. The sources have been selected with different luminosity to investigate the dependence of the clustering process on the luminosity of the source. Results: Only one millimeter (mm) source is detected towards the low luminosity source Serpens--FIRS 1. Towards CB 3 and IC1396 N, we detect two compact sources separated by $\sim$0.05 pc. The 1.3mm image of IC 1396 N, which provides the highest spatial resolution, reveal that one of these cores is splitted in, at least, three individual sources. 
0704.01099	The Epps effect revisited	Statistical Finance (q-fin.ST)	Authors:Bence Toth, Janos Kertesz	 Abstract: We analyse the dependence of stock return cross-correlations on the sampling frequency of the data known as the Epps effect: For high resolution data the cross-correlations are significantly smaller than their asymptotic value as observed on daily data. The former description implies that changing trading frequency should alter the characteristic time of the phenomenon. This is not true for the empirical data: The Epps curves do not scale with market activity. The latter result indicates that the time scale of the phenomenon is connected to the reaction time of market participants (this we denote as human time scale), independent of market activity. In this paper we give a new description of the Epps effect through the decomposition of cross-correlations. After testing our method on a model of generated random walk price changes we justify our analytical results by fitting the Epps curves of real world data. 
0704.01100	Transitive powers of Young-Jucys-Murphy elements are central	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:I. P. Goulden, D. M. Jackson	 Abstract: Although powers of the Young-Jucys-Murphya elements X_i = (1 i) + ... +(i-1 i), i = 1, ..., n, in the symmetric group S_n acting on {1, ...,n} do not lie in the centre of the group algebra of S_n, we show that transitive powers, namely the sum of the contributions from elements that act transitively on {1, >...,n}, are central. We determine the coefficients, which we call star factorization numbers, that occur in the resolution of transitive powers with respect to the class basis of the centre of S_n, and show that they have a polynomiality property. These centrality and polynomiality properties have seemingly unrelated consequences. First, they answer a question raised by Pak about reduced decompositions; second, they explain and extend the beautiful symmetry result discovered by Irving and Rattan; and thirdly, we relate the polynomiality to an existing polynomiality result for a class of double Hurwitz numbers associated with branched covers of the sphere, which therefore suggests that there may be an ELSV-type formula associated with the star factorization numbers. 
0704.01101	On the S_n-module structure of the noncommutative harmonics	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Emmanuel Briand, Mercedes Rosas, Mike Zabrocki	 Abstract: Using a noncommutative analog of Chevalley's decomposition of polynomials into symmetric polynomials times coinvariants due to Bergeron, Reutenauer, Rosas, and Zabrocki we compute the graded Frobenius series for their two sets of noncommutative harmonics with respect to the left action of the symmetric group (acting on variables). We use these results to derive the Frobenius series for the enveloping algebra of the derived free Lie algebra in n variables. 
0704.01102	Spectral analysis for convolution operators on locally compact groups	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Marius Mantoiu, Rafael Tiedra de Aldecoa	 Abstract: We consider operators $H_\mu$ of convolution with measures $\mu$ on locally compact groups. We characterize the spectrum of $H_\mu$ by constructing auxiliary operators whose kernel contain the pure point and singular subspaces of $H_\mu$, respectively. The proofs rely on commutator methods. 
0704.01103	Spin Dynamics Of $qqq$ Wave Function On Light Front In High Momentum  Limit Of QCD : Role Of $qqq$ Force	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:A.N. Mitra	 Abstract: The contribution of a spin-rich $qqq$ force (in conjunction with pairwise $qq$ forces) to the analytical structure of the $qqq$ wave function is worked out in the high momentum regime of QCD where the confining interaction may be ignored, so that the dominant effect is $Coulombic$. A distinctive feature of this study is that the spin-rich $qqq$ force is generated by a $ggg$ vertex (a genuine part of the QCD Lagrangian) wherein the 3 radiating gluon lines end on as many quark lines, giving rise to a (Mercedes-Benz type) $Y$-shaped diagram. The dynamics is that of a Salpeter-like equation (3D support for the kernel) formulated covariantly on the light front, a la Markov-Yukawa Transversality Principle (MYTP) which warrants a 2-way interconnection between the 3D and 4D Bethe-Salpeter (BSE) forms for 2 as well as 3 fermion quarks. With these ingredients, the differential equation for the 3D wave function $\phi$ receives well-defined contributions from the $qq$ and $qqq$ forces. In particular a $negative$ eigenvalue of the spin operator $i \sigma_1.\sigma_2\times \sigma_3$ which is an integral part of the $qqq$ force, causes a characteristic singularity in the differential equation, signalling the dynamical effect of a spin-rich $qqq$ force not yet considered in the literature. The potentially crucial role of this interesting effect vis-a-vis the so-called `spin anomaly' of the proton, is a subject of considerable physical interest. 
0704.01104	On the induction of the four-dimensional Lorentz-breaking non-Abelian  Chern-Simons action	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:M. Gomes, J. R. Nascimento, E. Passos, A. Yu. Petrov, A. J. da Silva	 Abstract: A four-dimensional Lorentz-breaking non-Abelian Chern-Simons like action is generated as a one-loop perturbative correction via an appropriate Lorentz-breaking coupling of the non-Abelian gauge field to the spinor field. This term is shown to be regularization dependent but nevertheless it can be found unambiguously in different regularization schemes at zero and finite temperature. 
0704.01105	Neutrino Astronomy with High Spatial Resolution is Already Existing	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Valentin. A. Rantsev-Kartinov	 Abstract: By basing on observations of skeletal structures of the Sun and assuming that some of them are located inside of star, and also that a filamentary (linear) matter (whose a model earlier was put forward by B.U. Rodionov) is in basis of these internal structures the author consider possible processes of images formation of these structures inside the Sun and theirs coming out into space and also gives an elementary estimations of its parameters, which allow: i) to form their images in a flux of electronic neutrinos; ii) to carry out these images from within of the Sun into space; iii) to develop these images in form of a concomitant flux of soft x-ray, which next is recorded by telescope of soft x-ray. It is supposed the processes considered here, actually, can be accepted as future base of neutrino astronomy with high spatial resolution. 
0704.01106	Analysis of $Ω_c^*(css)$ and $Ω_b^*(bss)$ with QCD sum rules	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Zhi-Gang Wang	 Abstract: In this article, we calculate the masses and residues of the heavy baryons $\Omega_c^*(css)$ and $\Omega_b^*(bss)$ with spin-parity ${3/2}^+$ with the QCD sum rules. The numerical values are compatible with experimental data and other theoretical estimations. 
0704.01107	The dependence of the estimated luminosities of ULX on spectral models	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Senorita Devi (Manipur Univ), R. Misra (IUCAA), V. K. Agrawal (TIFR), K. Y. Singh (Manipur Univ)	 Abstract: Data from {\it Chandra} observations of thirty nearby galaxies were analyzed and 365 X-ray point sources were chosen whose spectra were not contaminated by excessive diffuse emission and not affected by photon pile up. The spectra of these sources were fitted using two spectral models (an absorbed power-law and a disk blackbody) to ascertain the dependence of estimated parameters on the spectral model used. It was found that the cumulative luminosity function depends on the choice of the spectral model, especially for luminosities $> 10^{40}$ ergs/s. In accordance with previous results, a large number ($\sim 80$) of the sources have luminosities $> 10^{39}$ ergs/s (Ultra-Luminous X-ray sources) with indistinguishable average spectral parameters (inner disk temperature $\sim 1$ keV and/or photon index $\Gamma \sim 2$) with those of the lower luminosities ones. After considering foreground stars and known background AGN,we identify four sources whose minimum luminosity exceed $10^{40}$ ergs/s, and call them Extremely Luminous X-ray sources (ELX). The spectra of these sources are in general better represented by the disk black body model than the power-law one. These ELX can be grouped into two distinct spectral classes. Two of them have an inner disk temperature of $< 0.5$ keV and hence are called ``supersoft'' ELX, while the other two have temperatures $\gtrsim 1.3$ keV and are called ``hard'' ELX. The estimated inner disk temperatures of the supersoft ELX are compatible with the hypothesis that they harbor intermediate size black holes, which are accreting at $\sim 0.5$ times their Eddington Luminosity. The radiative mechanism for hard ELX, seems to be Inverse Comptonization, which in contrast to standard black holes systems, is probably saturated. 
0704.01108	Evidence for Symplectic Symmetry in Ab Initio No-Core Shell Model  Results for Light Nuclei	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Tomas Dytrych, Kristina D. Sviratcheva, Chairul Bahri, Jerry P. Draayer, James P. Vary	 Abstract: Clear evidence for symplectic symmetry in low-lying states of $^{12}$C and $^{16}$O is reported. Eigenstates of $^{12}$C and $^{16}$O, determined within the framework of the no-core shell model using the JISP16 $NN$ realistic interaction, typically project at the 85-90% level onto a few of the most deformed symplectic basis states that span only a small fraction of the full model space. The results are nearly independent of whether the bare or renormalized effective interactions are used in the analysis. The outcome confirms Elliott's \SU{3} model which underpins the symplectic scheme, and above all, points to the relevance of a symplectic no-core shell model that can reproduce experimental B(E2) values without effective charges as well as deformed spatial modes associated with clustering phenomena in nuclei. 
0704.01109	Spinning Strings, Black Holes and Stable Closed Timelike Geodesics	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Valeria M. Rosa, Patricio S. letelier	 Abstract: The existence and stability under linear perturbation of closed timelike curves in the spacetime associated to Schwarzschild black hole pierced by a spinning string are studied. Due to the superposition of the black hole, we find that the spinning string spacetime is deformed in such a way to allow the existence of closed timelike geodesics. 
0704.01110	On spherically symmetrical accretion in fractal media	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nirupam Roy	 Abstract: We use fractional integrals to generalize the description of hydrodynamic accretion in fractal media. The fractional continuous medium model allows the generalization of the equations of balance of mass density and momentum density. These make it possible to consider the general case of spherical hydrodynamic accretion onto a gravitating mass embedded in a fractal medium. The general nature of the solution is similar to the "Bondi solution", but the accretion rate may vary substantially and the dependence on central mass may change significantly depending on dimensionality of the fractal medium. The theory shows consistency with the observational data and numerical simulation results for the particular case of accretion onto pre-main-sequence stars. 
0704.01111	QCD in One Dimension at Nonzero Chemical Potential	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:L. Ravagli, J.J.M. Verbaarschot	 Abstract: Using an integration formula recently derived by Conrey, Farmer and Zirnbauer, we calculate the expectation value of the phase factor of the fermion determinant for the staggered lattice QCD action in one dimension. We show that the chemical potential can be absorbed into the quark masses; the theory is in the same chiral symmetry class as QCD in three dimensions at zero chemical potential. In the limit of a large number of colors and fixed number of lattice points, chiral symmetry is broken spontaneously, and our results are in agreement with expressions based on a chiral Lagrangian. In this limit, the eigenvalues of the Dirac operator are correlated according to random matrix theory for QCD in three dimensions. The discontinuity of the chiral condensate is due to an alternative to the Banks-Casher formula recently discovered for QCD in four dimensions at nonzero chemical potential. The effect of temperature on the average phase factor is discussed in a schematic random matrix model. 
0704.01112	Can GLAST detect gamma-rays from the extended radio features of radio  galaxies?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R.M.Sambruna, M.Georganopoulos, D.Davis, A.Cillis	 Abstract: A few FRI radio galaxies were detected at GeV gamma-rays with CGRO EGRET, with peroperties suggesting that the gamma-ray flux originates from the core. Here we discuss the possibility that the extended radio features of radio galaxies could be detected with the LAT, focusing on the particularly promising case of the nearby giant radio galaxy Fornax A. 
0704.01113	The VLT-FLAMES survey of massive stars: Wind properties and evolution of  hot massive stars in the LMC	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. R. Mokiem, A. de Koter, C. J. Evans, J. Puls, S. J. Smartt, P. A. Crowther, A. Herrero, N. Langer, D. J. Lennon, F. Najarro, M. R. Villamariz, J. S. Vink	 Abstract: [Abridged] We have studied the optical spectra of 28 O- and early B-type stars in the Large Magellanic Cloud, 22 of which are associated with the young star-forming region N11. Stellar parameters are determined using an automated fitting method, combining the stellar atmosphere code FASTWIND with the genetic-algorithm optimisation routine PIKAIA. Results for stars in the LH9 and LH10 associations of N11 are consistent with a sequential star formation scenario, in which activity in LH9 triggered the formation of LH10. Our sample contains four stars of spectral type O2, of which the hottest is found to be ~49-54 kK (cf. ~45-46 kK for O3 stars). The masses of helium-enriched dwarfs and giants are systematically lower than those implied by non-rotating evolutionary tracks. We interpret this as evidence for efficient rotationally-enhanced mixing, leading to the surfacing of primary helium and to an increase of the stellar luminosity. This result is consistent with findings for SMC stars by Mokiem et al. For bright giants and supergiants no such mass-discrepancy is found, implying that these stars follow tracks of modestly (or non-)rotating objects. Stellar mass-loss properties were found to be intermediate to those found in massive stars in the Galaxy and the SMC, and comparisons with theoretical predictions at LMC metallicity yielded good agreement over the luminosity range of our targets, i.e. 5.0 < log L/L(sun) < 6.1. 
0704.01114	Identification of Absorption Features in an Extrasolar Planet Atmosphere	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T. S. Barman	 Abstract: Water absorption is identified in the atmosphere of HD209458b by comparing models for the planet's transmitted spectrum to recent, multi-wavelength, eclipse-depth measurements (from 0.3 to 1 microns) published by Knutson et al. (2007). A cloud-free model which includes solar abundances, rainout of condensates, and photoionization of sodium and potassium is in good agreement with the entire set of eclipse-depth measurements from the ultraviolet to near-infrared. Constraints are placed on condensate removal by gravitational settling, the bulk metallicity, and the redistribution of absorbed stellar flux. Comparisons are also made to the Charbonneau et al. (2002) sodium measurements. 
0704.01115	Strange Nucleon Form Factors from $ep$ and $νp$ Elastic Scattering	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:Stephen Pate	 Abstract: The recent parity-violating $ep$ forward-scattering elastic asymmetry data from Jefferson Lab (HAPPEx and G0), when combined with the $\nu p$ elastic cross section data from Brookhaven (E734), permit an extraction of the strangeness contribution to the vector and axial nucleon form factors for momentum transfers in the range $0.45 < Q^2 < 1.0$ GeV$^2$. These results, combined with the recent determination of the strange vector form factors at $Q^2 = 0.1$ GeV$^2$ (SAMPLE, HAPPEx, PVA4, G0) have been interpreted in terms of $uuds\bar{s}$ configurations very different from the kaon-loop configurations usually associated with strangeness in the nucleon. New experiments are being proposed to improve the state of our knowledge of the $\nu p$ elastic cross section -- these new experiments will push the range of $Q^2$ to much lower values, and greatly increase the precision of the $\nu p$ elastic data. One outcome of this can be a measurement of the strangeness contribution to the nucleon spin, $\Delta s$. Nuclear targets (e.g. C or Ar) are to be used in these neutrino experiments, and so a deep understanding of the nuclear physics, particularly in regard to final state effects, is needed before the potential of these precision experiments can be fully realized. 
0704.01116	VIMOS-VLT spectroscopy of the giant Ly-alpha nebulae associated with  three z~2.5 radio galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Villar-Martin, S.F. Sanchez, A. Humphrey, M. Dijkstra, S. di Serego Alighieri, C. De Breuck, R. Gonzalez Delgado	 Abstract: The morphological and spectroscopic properties of the giant (>60 kpc) Ly-alpha nebulae associated with three radio galaxies at z~2.5 (MRC 1558-003, MRC 2025-218 and MRC 0140-257) have been investigated using integral field spectroscopic data obtained with VIMOS on VLT. The morphologies are varied. The nebula of one source has a centrally peaked, rounded appearance. In the other two objects, it consists of two spatial components. The three nebulae are aligned with the radio axis within <30 deg. The total Ly-alpha luminosities are in the range (0.3-3.4) x 1e44 erg s-1. The Ly-alpha spectral profile shows strong variation through the nebulae, with FWHM values in the range ~400-1500 km s-1 and velocity shifts V~120-600 km s-1. We present an infall model which can explain successfully most Ly-alpha morphological and spectroscopic properties of the nebula associated with MRC 1558-003. This adds further support to our previous conclusion that the _quiescent_ giant nebulae associated with this and other high redshift powerful radio galaxies are in infall. A problem for this model is the difficulty to reproduce the large Ly-alpha FWHM values. We have discovered a giant (~85 kpc) Ly-alpha nebula associated with the radio galaxy MRC 0140-257 at z=2.64. It shows strikingly relaxed kinematics (FWHM< 300 km s-1 and V<120 km s-1), unique among high z (>2) radio galaxies. 
0704.01117	Condensation of Vortex-Strings: Effective Potential Contribution Through  Dual Actions	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Rudnei O. Ramos, J. F. Medeiros Neto, Daniel G. Barci, Cesar A. Linhares	 Abstract: Topological excitations are believed to play an important role in different areas of physics. For example, one case of topical interest is the use of dual models of quantum cromodynamics to understand properties of its vacuum and confinement through the condensation of magnetic monopoles and vortices. Other applications are related to the role of these topological excitations, nonhomogeneous solutions of the field equations, in phase transitions associated to spontaneous symmetry breaking in gauge theories, whose study is of importance in phase transitions in the early universe, for instance. Here we show a derivation of a model dual to the scalar Abelian Higgs model where its topological excitations, namely vortex-strings, become manifest and can be treated in a quantum field theory way. The derivation of the nontrivial contribution of these vacuum excitations to phase transitions and its analogy with superconductivity is then made possible and they are studied here. 
0704.01118	Observation of Anti-correlation between Scintillation and Ionization for  MeV Gamma-Rays in Liquid Xenon	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:E. Aprile, K.L. Giboni, P. Majewski, K. Ni, M. Yamashita	 Abstract: A strong anti-correlation between ionization and scintillation signals produced by MeV gamma-rays in liquid xenon has been measured and used to improve the energy resolution by combining the two signals. The improvement is explained by reduced electron-ion recombination fluctuations of the combined signal compared to fluctuations of the individual signals. Simultaneous measurements of ionization and scintillation signals were carried out with Cs-137, Na-22 and Co-60 gamma rays, as a function of electric field in the liquid. A resolution of 1.7%(sigma) at 662 keV was measured at 1 kV/cm, significantly better than the resolution from either scintillation or ionization alone. A detailed analysis indicates that further improvement to less than 1%(sigma) is possible with higher light collection efficiency and lower electronic noise. 
0704.01119	Massive Stars: From the VLT to the ELT	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C. J. Evans	 Abstract: New facilities and technologies have advanced our understanding of massive stars significantly over the past 30 years. Here I introduce a new large survey of massive stars using VLT-FLAMES, noting the target fields and observed binary fractions. These data have been used for the first empirical test of the metallicity dependence of the intensity of stellar winds, finding good agreement with theory -- an important result for the evolutionary models that are used to interpret distant clusters, starbursts, and star-forming galaxies. Looking ahead, plans for future Extremely Large Telescopes (ELTs) are now undergoing significant development, and offer the exciting prospect of observing spatially-resolved massive stars well beyond the Local Group. 
0704.01120	"Illusion of control" in Minority and Parrondo Games	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:J.B. Satinover, D. Sornette	 Abstract: Human beings like to believe they are in control of their destiny. This ubiquitous trait seems to increase motivation and persistence, and is probably evolutionarily adaptive. But how good really is our ability to control? How successful is our track record in these areas? There is little understanding of when and under what circumstances we may over-estimate or even lose our ability to control and optimize outcomes, especially when they are the result of aggregations of individual optimization processes. Here, we demonstrate analytically using the theory of Markov Chains and by numerical simulations in two classes of games, the Minority game and the Parrondo Games, that agents who optimize their strategy based on past information actually perform worse than non-optimizing agents. In other words, low-entropy (more informative) strategies under-perform high-entropy (or random) strategies. This provides a precise definition of the "illusion of control" in set-ups a priori defined to emphasize the importance of optimization. 
0704.01121	Classification of Noncommuting Quadrilaterals of Factors	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Pinhas Grossman, Masaki Izumi	 Abstract: A quadrilateral of factors is an irreducible inclusion of factors $N \subset M$ with intermediate subfactors $P$ and $Q$ such that $P$ and $Q$ generate $M$ and the intersection of $P$ and $Q$ is $N$. We investigate the structure of a non-commuting quadrilateral of factors with all the elementary inclusions $P\subset M$, $Q\subset M$, $N\subset P$, and $N\subset Q$ 2-supertransitive. In particular we classify such quadrilaterals with the indices of the elementary subfactors less than or equal to 4. We also compute the angles between $P$ and $Q$ for quadrilaterals coming from $\alpha$-induction and asymptotic inclusions. 
0704.01122	Investigation of Energy Spectrum of EGRET Gamma-ray Sources by an  Extensive Air Shower Experiment	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Khakian Ghomi, M. Bahmanabadi, F. Sheidaei, J. Samimi, A. Anvari	 Abstract: Ultra-High-Energy (UHE) ($E>100 $TeV) Extensive Air Showers (EASs) have been monitored for a period of five years (1997-2003), using a small array of scintillation detectors in Tehran, Iran. The data have been analyzed to take in to account of the dependence of source counts on zenith angle. Because of varying thickness of the overlaying atmosphere, the shower count rate is extremely dependent on zenith angle. During a calendar year different sources come in the field of view of the array at varying zenith angles and have different effective observation time equivalent to zenith in a day. High energy gamma-ray sources from the EGRET third catalogue where observed and the data were analyzed using an excess method. Upper limits were obtained for 10 EGRET sources. Then we investigated the EAS event rates for these 10 sources and obtained a flux for each of them using parameters of our experiment results and simulations. Finally we investigated the gamma-ray spectrum in the UHE range using these fluxes with reported fluxes of the EGRET sources. 
0704.01123	Conjugate field and fluctuation-dissipation relation for the dynamic  phase transition in the two-dimensional kinetic Ising model	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:D. T. Robb, P. A. Rikvold, A. Berger, M. A. Novotny	 Abstract: The two-dimensional kinetic Ising model, when exposed to an oscillating applied magnetic field, has been shown to exhibit a nonequilibrium, second-order dynamic phase transition (DPT), whose order parameter Q is the period-averaged magnetization. It has been established that this DPT falls in the same universality class as the equilibrium phase transition in the two-dimensional Ising model in zero applied field. Here we study for the first time the scaling of the dynamic order parameter with respect to a nonzero, period-averaged, magnetic `bias' field, H_b, for a DPT produced by a square-wave applied field. We find evidence that the scaling exponent, \delta_d, of H_b at the critical period of the DPT is equal to the exponent for the critical isotherm, \delta_e, in the equilibrium Ising model. This implies that H_b is a significant component of the field conjugate to Q. A finite-size scaling analysis of the dynamic order parameter above the critical period provides further support for this result. We also demonstrate numerically that, for a range of periods and values of H_b in the critical region, a fluctuation-dissipation relation (FDR), with an effective temperature T_{eff}(T, P, H_0) depending on the period, and possibly the temperature and field amplitude, holds for the variables Q and H_b. This FDR justifies the use of the scaled variance of Q as a proxy for the nonequilibrium susceptibility, \partial<Q> / \partial H_b, in the critical region. 
0704.01124	Non-commutativity and Open Strings Dynamics in Melvin Universes	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Danny Dhokarh, Akikazu Hashimoto, Sheikh Shajidul Haque	 Abstract: We compute the Moyal phase factor for open strings ending on D3-branes wrapping a NSNS Melvin universe in a decoupling limit explicitly using world sheet formalism in cylindrical coordinates. 
0704.01125	High Galactic Latitude Interstellar Neutral Hydrogen Structure and  Associated (WMAP) High Frequency Continuum Emission	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Gerrit L. Verschuur	 Abstract: Spatial associations have been found between interstellar neutral hydrogen (HI) emission morphology and small-scale structure observed by the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) in an area bounded by l = 60 & 180 deg, b = 30 & 70 deg, which was the primary target for this study. This area is marked by the presence of highly disturbed local HI and a preponderance of intermediate- and high-velocity gas. The HI distribution toward the brightest peaks in the WMAP Internal Linear Combination (ILC) map for this area is examined and by comparing with a second area on the sky it is demonstrated that the associations do not appear to be the result of chance coincidence. Close examination of several of the associations reveals important new properties of diffuse interstellar neutral hydrogen structure. In the case of high-velocity cloud MI, the HI and WMAP ILC morphologies are similar and an excess of soft X-ray emission and H-alpha emission have been reported for this feature. It is suggested that the small angular-scale, high frequency continuum emission observed by WMAP may be produced at the surfaces of HI features interacting one another, or at the interface between moving HI structures and regions of enhanced plasma density in the surrounding interstellar medium. It is possible that dust grains play a role in producing the emission. However, the primary purpose of this report is to draw attention to these apparent associations without offering an unambiguous explanation as to the relevant emission mechanism(s). 
0704.01126	Negative- and positive-phase-velocity propagation in an isotropic chiral  medium moving at constant velocity	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Tom G.Mackay (University of Edinburgh), Akhlesh Lakhtakia (Pennsylvania State University)	 Abstract: Analysis of electromagnetic planewave propagation in a medium which is a spatiotemporally homogeneous, temporally nonlocal, isotropic, chiral medium in a co-moving frame of reference shows that the medium is both spatially and temporally nonlocal with respect to all non-co-moving inertial frames of reference. Using the Lorentz transformations of electric and magnetic fields, we show that plane waves which have positive phase velocity in the co-moving frame of reference can have negative phase velocity in certain non-co-moving frames of reference. Similarly, plane waves which have negative phase velocity in the co-moving frame can have positive phase velocity in certain non-co-moving frames. 
0704.01127	Sensitivity of solar off-limb line profiles to electron density  stratification and the velocity distribution anisotropy	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:N.-E. Raouafi, S. K. Solanki	 Abstract: The effect of the electron density stratification on the intensity profiles of the H I Ly-$\alpha$ line and the O VI and Mg X doublets formed in solar coronal holes is investigated. We employ an analytical 2-D model of the large scale coronal magnetic field that provides a good representation of the corona at the minimum of solar activity. We use the mass-flux conservation equation to determine the outflow speed of the solar wind at any location in the solar corona and take into account the integration along the line of sight (LOS). The main assumption we make is that no anisotropy in the kinetic temperature of the coronal species is considered. We find that at distances greater than 1 Rsun from the solar surface the widths of the emitted lines of O VI and Mg X are sensitive to the details of the adopted electron density stratification. However, Ly-$\alpha$, which is a pure radiative line, is hardly affected. The calculated total intensities of Ly-$\alpha$ and the O VI doublet depend to a lesser degree on the density stratification and are comparable to the observed ones for most of the considered density models. The widths of the observed profiles of Ly-$\alpha$ and Mg X are well reproduced by most of the considered electron density stratifications, while for the O VI doublet only few stratifications give satisfying results. The densities deduced from SOHO data result in O VI profiles whose widths and intensity ratio are relatively close to the values observed by UVCS although only isotropic velocity distributions are employed. These density profiles also reproduce the other considered observables with good accuracy. Thus the need for a strong anisotropy of the velocity distribution (i.e. a temperature anisotropy) is not so clear cut as previous investigations of UVCS data suggested. ... 
0704.01128	Subfactors and Hadamard Matrices	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Wes Camp, Remus Nicoara	 Abstract: To any complex Hadamard matrix H one associates a spin model commuting square, and therefore a hyperfinite subfactor. The standard invariant of this subfactor captures certain "group-like" symmetries of H. To gain some insight, we compute the first few relative commutants of such subfactors for Hadamard matrices of small dimensions. Also, we show that subfactors arising from Dita type matrices have intermediate subfactors, and thus their standard invariants have some extra structure besides the Jones projections. 
0704.01129	SW Sextantis stars: the dominant population of CVs with orbital periods  between 3-4 hours	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. Rodriguez-Gil, B. T. Gaensicke, H.-J. Hagen, S. Araujo-Betancor, A. Aungwerojwit, C. Allende Prieto, D. Boyd, J. Casares, D. Engels, O. Giannakis, E. T. Harlaftis, J. Kube, H. Lehto, I. G. Martinez-Pais, R. Schwarz, W. Skidmore, A. Staude, M. A. P. Torres	 Abstract: [Abridged] We present time-series optical photometry of five new CVs identified by the Hamburg Quasar Survey. The eclipses observed in HS 0129+2933, HS 0220+0603, and HS 0455+8315 provided very accurate orbital periods of 3.35129827(65), 3.58098501(34), and 3.56937674(26) h, respectively. HS 0805+3822 shows grazing eclipses and has a likely orbital period of 3.2169(2) h. Time-resolved optical spectroscopy of the new CVs (with the exception of HS 0805+3822) is also presented. Radial velocity studies provided an orbital period of 3.55 h for HS 1813+6122, which allowed us to identify the observed photometric signal at 3.39 h as a negative superhump wave. The spectroscopic behaviour clearly identifies these new CVs as new SW Sextantis stars. These new additions increase the number of known SW Sex stars to 35. Almost 40 per cent of the total SW Sex population do not show eclipses, invalidating the requirement of eclipses as a defining characteristic of the class and the models based on a high orbital inclination geometry alone. On the other hand, the predominance of orbital periods in the narrow 3-4.5 h range is becoming more pronounced. In fact, almost half the CVs which populate the 3-4.5 h period interval are definite members of the class. These statistics are confirmed by our results from the Hamburg Quasar Survey CVs. Remarkably, 54 per cent of the Hamburg nova-like variables have been identified as SW Sex stars with orbital periods in the 3-4.5 h range. The observation of this pile-up of systems close to the upper boundary of the period gap is difficult to reconcile with the standard theory of CV evolution, as the SW Sex stars are believed to have the highest mass transfer rates among CVs. Finally, we review the full range of common properties that the SW Sex stars exhibit. 
0704.01130	Relativeca Dopplera efekto ĉe unuforme akcelata movo -- II	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:F. M. Paiva (1), A. F. F. Teixeira (2) ((1) Colegio Pedro II, (2) CBPF)	 Abstract: Extending physics/0701092, a light source of monochromatic radiation, in rectilinear motion under constant proper acceleration, passes near an observer at rest. In the context of special relativity, we describe the observed Doppler effect. We describe also the interesting discontinuous effect when riding through occurs. An English version of this article is available. ----- Da^urigante physics/0701092, luma fonto de unukolora radiado ^ce rekta movo ^ce konstanta propra akcelo pasas preter restanta observanto. ^Ce la special-relativeco, ni priskribas la observatan Doppleran efikon. Ni anka^u priskribas la interesan nekontinuan efikon se trapaso okazas. 
0704.01131	Finding (or not) New Gamma-ray Pulsars with GLAST	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Scott M. Ransom (NRAO)	 Abstract: Young energetic pulsars will likely be the largest class of Galactic sources observed by GLAST, with many hundreds detected. Many will be unknown as radio pulsars, making pulsation detection dependent on radio and/or x-ray observations or on blind periodicity searches of the gamma-rays. Estimates for the number of pulsars GLAST will detect in blind searches have ranged from tens to many hundreds. I argue that the number will be near the low end of this range, partly due to observations being made in a scanning as opposed to a pointing mode. This paper briefly reviews how blind pulsar searches will be conducted using GLAST, what limits these searches, and how the computations and statistics scale with various parameters. 
0704.01132	Did time begin? Will time end?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Paul H. Frampton	 Abstract: Did time begin at a Big Bang? Will the present expansion of the universe last for a finite or infinite time? These questions sound philosophical but are becoming, now in the twenty-first century, central to the scientific study of cosmology. The answers, which should become clarified in the next decade or two, could have profound implications for how we see our own role in the universe. Since the original publication of Stephen Hawking's {\it A Brief History of Time} in 1988, the answers to these questions have progressed as a result of research by the community of active theoretical physicists including myself. To present the underlying ideas requires discussion of a wide range of topics in cosmology, especially the make up of the energy content of the universe. A brief summary of my conclusions, that of three different possibilities concerning the history and future of time, the least likely is the conventional wisdom (time began and will never end) and most likely is a cyclic model (time never begins or ends), is in the short final Chapter which could be read first. To understand the reasoning leading to my conclusions could encourage reading of my entire book. My hope in writing this, my first popular book, is that it will engender reflection about time. Many a non-scientist may already hold a philosophical opinion about whether time begins and ends. This book's aim is to present some recently discovered scientific facts which can focus the reader's consideration of the two short questions in my title. 
0704.01133	FUSE Observations of the Dwarf Novae UU Aql, BV Cen, and CH UMa in  Quiescence	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Edward M. Sion, Patrick Godon, Fuhua Cheng, Paula Szkody	 Abstract: We report on FUSE spectra of three U Gem-type, long period, dwarf novae, UU Aql, BV Cen and CH UMa taken during their quiescence intervals. We discuss the line identifications in their spectra and attempt to characterize the source(s) of their FUV flux distribution. Archival IUE spectrum of CH UMa and BV Cen in quiescence were identified as having a matching flux level with the FUSE spectra and these were combined with each FUSE spectrum to broaden the wavelength coverage and further constrain model fits. Multi-component synthetic spectral fits from our model grids, consisting of single temperature white dwarfs, two-temperature white dwarfs, accretion disks and white dwarfs plus accretion disks, were applied to the FUSE spectra alone and to the combined FUSE + IUE spectra. We present the results of our model analyses and their implications. 
0704.01134	Experimental and theoretical study of light scattering by individual  mature red blood cells by use of scanning flow cytometry and discrete dipole  approximation	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Maxim A. Yurkin, Konstantin A. Semyanov, Peter A. Tarasov, Andrei V. Chernyshev, Alfons G. Hoekstra, Valeri P. Maltsev	 Abstract: Elastic light scattering by mature red blood cells (RBCs) was theoretically and experimentally analyzed with the discrete dipole approximation (DDA) and the scanning flow cytometry (SFC), respectively. SFC permits measurement of angular dependence of light-scattering intensity (indicatrix) of single particles. A mature RBC is modeled as a biconcave disk in DDA simulations of light scattering. We have studied the effect of RBC orientation related to the direction of the incident light upon the indicatrix. Numerical calculations of indicatrices for several aspect ratios and volumes of RBC have been carried out. Comparison of the simulated indicatrices and indicatrices measured by SFC showed good agreement, validating the biconcave disk model for a mature RBC. We simulated the light-scattering output signals from the SFC with the DDA for RBCs modeled as a disk-sphere and as an oblate spheroid. The biconcave disk, the disk-sphere, and the oblate spheroid models have been compared for two orientations, i.e. face-on and rim-on incidence. Only the oblate spheroid model for rim-on incidence gives results similar to the rigorous biconcave disk model. 
0704.01135	Inflation, bifurcations of nonlinear curvature Lagrangians and dark  energy	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Eckehard W. Mielke, Fjodor V. Kusmartsev, Franz E. Schunck	 Abstract: A possible equivalence of scalar dark matter, the inflaton, and modified gravity is analyzed. After a conformal mapping, the dependence of the effective Lagrangian on the curvature is not only singular but also bifurcates into several almost Einsteinian spaces, distinguished only by a different effective gravitational strength and cosmological constant. A swallow tail catastrophe in the bifurcation set indicates the possibility for the coexistence of different Einsteinian domains in our Universe. This `triple unification' may shed new light on the nature and large scale distribution not only of dark matter but also on `dark energy', regarded as an effective cosmological constant, and inflation. 
0704.01136	Stability of Chaplygin gas thin-shell wormholes	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Ernesto F. Eiroa, Claudio Simeone	 Abstract: In this paper we construct spherical thin-shell wormholes supported by a Chaplygin gas. For a rather general class of geometries we introduce a new approach for the stability analysis of static solutions under perturbations preserving the symmetry. We apply this to wormholes constructed from Schwarzschild, Schwarzschild-de Sitter, Schwarzschild-anti de Sitter and Reissner-Nordstrom metrics. In the last two cases, we find that there are values of the parameters for which stable static solutions exist. 
0704.01137	Lattice refining loop quantum cosmology, anisotropic models and  stability	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Martin Bojowald, Daniel Cartin, Gaurav Khanna	 Abstract: A general class of loop quantizations for anisotropic models is introduced and discussed, which enhances loop quantum cosmology by relevant features seen in inhomogeneous situations. The main new effect is an underlying lattice which is being refined during dynamical changes of the volume. In general, this leads to a new feature of dynamical difference equations which may not have constant step-size, posing new mathematical problems. It is discussed how such models can be evaluated and what lattice refinements imply for semiclassical behavior. Two detailed examples illustrate that stability conditions can put strong constraints on suitable refinement models, even in the absence of a fundamental Hamiltonian which defines changes of the underlying lattice. Thus, a large class of consistency tests of loop quantum gravity becomes available. In this context, it will also be seen that quantum corrections due to inverse powers of metric components in a constraint are much larger than they appeared recently in more special treatments of isotropic, free scalar models where they were artificially suppressed. 
0704.01138	Testing Disk Instability Models for Giant Planet Formation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Alan P. Boss	 Abstract: Disk instability is an attractive yet controversial means for the rapid formation of giant planets in our solar system and elsewhere. Recent concerns regarding the first adiabatic exponent of molecular hydrogen gas are addressed and shown not to lead to spurious clump formation in the author's disk instability models. A number of disk instability models have been calculated in order to further test the robustness of the mechanism, exploring the effects of changing the pressure equation of state, the vertical temperature profile, and other parameters affecting the temperature distribution. Possible reasons for differences in results obtained by other workers are discussed. Disk instability remains as a plausible formation mechanism for giant planets. 
0704.01139	High-dimensional variable selection	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Larry Wasserman, Kathryn Roeder	 Abstract: This paper explores the following question: what kind of statistical guarantees can be given when doing variable selection in high-dimensional models? In particular, we look at the error rates and power of some multi-stage regression methods. In the first stage we fit a set of candidate models. In the second stage we select one model by cross-validation. In the third stage we use hypothesis testing to eliminate some variables. We refer to the first two stages as "screening" and the last stage as "cleaning." We consider three screening methods: the lasso, marginal regression, and forward stepwise regression. Our method gives consistent variable selection under certain conditions. 
0704.01140	Depletion effects in smectic phases of hard rod--hard sphere mixtures	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Yuri Martinez-Raton, Giorgio Cinacchi, Enrique Velasco, Luis Mederos	 Abstract: It is known that when hard spheres are added to a pure system of hard rods the stability of the smectic phase may be greatly enhanced, and that this effect can be rationalised in terms of depletion forces. In the present paper we first study the effect of orientational order on depletion forces in this particular binary system, comparing our results with those obtained adopting the usual approximation of considering the rods parallel and their orientations frozen. We consider mixtures with rods of different aspect ratios and spheres of different diameters, and we treat them within Onsager theory. Our results indicate that depletion effects, and consequently smectic stability, decrease significantly as a result of orientational disorder in the smectic phase when compared with corresponding data based on the frozen--orientation approximation. These results are discussed in terms of the $\tau$ parameter, which has been proposed as a convenient measure of depletion strength. We present closed expressions for $\tau$, and show that it is intimately connected with the depletion potential. We then analyse the effect of particle geometry by comparing results pertaining to systems of parallel rods of different shapes (spherocylinders, cylinders and parallelepipeds). We finally provide results based on the Zwanzig approximation of a Fundamental--Measure density--functional theory applied to mixtures of parallelepipeds and cubes of different sizes. In this case, we show that the $\tau$ parameter exhibits a linear asymptotic behaviour in the limit of large values of the hard--rod aspect ratio, in conformity with Onsager theory, as well as in the limit of large values of the ratio of rod breadth to cube side length, $d$, in contrast to Onsager approximation, which predicts $\tau\sim d^3$. 
0704.01141	In Search of the Spacetime Torsion	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:J. G. Pereira	 Abstract: Whether torsion plays or not a role in the description of the gravitational interaction is a problem that can only be solved by experiment. This is, however, a difficult task: since there are different possible interpretations for torsion, there is no a model-independent way to look for it. In these notes, two different possibilities will be reviewed, their consistency analyzed, and the corresponding experimental outputs briefly discussed. 
0704.01142	Observations of chemical differentiation in clumpy molecular clouds	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. V. Buckle (1), S. D. Rodgers (2), E. S. Wirström (3), S. B. Charnley (2), A. J. Markwick-Kemper (2 and 4), H. M. Butner (5), S. Takakuwa (6 and 7) ((1) Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge, (2) NASA Ames Research Center, (3) Onsala Space Observatory, (4) University of Virginia, (5) Joint Astronomy Centre, (6) Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, (7) National Astronomical Observatory of Japan)	 Abstract: We have extensively mapped a sample of dense molecular clouds (L1512, TMC-1C, L1262, Per 7, L1389, L1251E) in lines of HC3N, CH3OH, SO and C^{18}O. We demonstrate that a high degree of chemical differentiation is present in all of the observed clouds. We analyse the molecular maps for each cloud, demonstrating a systematic chemical differentiation across the sample, which we relate to the evolutionary state of the cloud. We relate our observations to the cloud physical, kinematical and evolutionary properties, and also compare them to the predictions of simple chemical models. The implications of this work for understanding the origin of the clumpy structures and chemical differentiation observed in dense clouds are discussed. 
0704.01143	Challenges for MSSM Higgs searches at Hadron Colliders	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:M. Carena, A. Menon, C.E.M. Wagner	 Abstract: In this article we analyze the impact of B-physics and Higgs physics at LEP on standard and non-standard Higgs bosons searches at the Tevatron and the LHC, within the framework of minimal flavor violating supersymmetric models. The B-physics constraints we consider come from the experimental measurements of the rare B-decays b -> s gamma and B_u -> tau nu and the experimental limit on the B_s -> mu+ mu- branching ratio. We show that these constraints are severe for large values of the trilinear soft breaking parameter A_t, rendering the non-standard Higgs searches at hadron colliders less promising. On the contrary these bounds are relaxed for small values of A_t and large values of the Higgsino mass parameter mu, enhancing the prospects for the direct detection of non-standard Higgs bosons at both colliders. We also consider the available ATLAS and CMS projected sensitivities in the standard model Higgs search channels, and we discuss the LHC's ability in probing the whole MSSM parameter space. In addition we also consider the expected Tevatron collider sensitivities in the standard model Higgs h -> b bbar channel to show that it may be able to find 3 sigma evidence in the B-physics allowed regions for small or moderate values of the stop mixing parameter. 
0704.01144	Optimization in Gradient Networks	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Natali Gulbahce	 Abstract: Gradient networks can be used to model the dominant structure of complex networks. Previous works have focused on random gradient networks. Here we study gradient networks that minimize jamming on substrate networks with scale-free and Erd\H{o}s-R\'enyi structure. We introduce structural correlations and strongly reduce congestion occurring on the network by using a Monte Carlo optimization scheme. This optimization alters the degree distribution and other structural properties of the resulting gradient networks. These results are expected to be relevant for transport and other dynamical processes in real network systems. 
0704.01145	Fermionic construction of partition function for multi-matrix models and  multi-component TL hierarchy	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:John Harnad, Alexander Yu. Orlov	 Abstract: We use $p$-component fermions $(p=2,3,...)$ to present $(2p-2)N$-fold integrals as a fermionic expectation value. This yields fermionic representation for various $(2p-2)$-matrix models. Links with the $p$-component KP hierarchy and also with the $p$-component TL hierarchy are discussed. We show that the set of all (but two) flows of $p$-component TL changes standard matrix models to new ones. 
0704.01146	The Plasma Puddle as a Perturbative Black Hole	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Clifford Cheung, Jared Kaplan	 Abstract: We argue that the weak coupling regime of a large N gauge theory in the Higgs phase contains black hole-like objects. These so-called ``plasma puddles'' are meta-stable lumps of hot plasma lying in locally un-Higgsed regions of space. They decay via O(1/N) thermal radiation and, perhaps surprisingly, absorb all incident matter. We show that an incident particle of energy E striking the plasma puddle will shower into an enormous number of decay products whose multiplicity grows linearly with E, and whose average energy is independent of E. Once these ultra-soft particles reach the interior they are thermalized by the plasma within, and so the object appears ``black.'' We determine some gross properties like the size and temperature of the the plasma puddle in terms of fundamental parameters in the gauge theory. Interestingly, demanding that the plasma puddle emit thermal Hawking radiation implies that the object is black (i.e. absorbs all incident particles), which implies classical stability, which implies satisfaction of the Bekenstein entropy bound. Because of the AdS/CFT duality and the many similarities between plasma puddles and black holes, we conjecture that black objects are a robust feature of quantum gravity. 
0704.01147	Information, complexity, brains and reality (Kolmogorov Manifesto)	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Giulio Ruffini	 Abstract: I discuss several aspects of information theory and its relationship to physics and neuroscience. The unifying thread of this somewhat chaotic essay is the concept of Kolmogorov or algorithmic complexity (Kolmogorov Complexity, for short). I argue that it is natural to interpret cognition as the art of finding algorithms that apprach the Solomonoff-Kolmogorov-Chaitin (algorithmic) Complexity limit with appropriate tradeoffs. In addition, I claim that what we call the universe is an interpreted abstraction--a mental construct--based on the observed coherence between multiple sensory input streams and our own interactions. Hence, the notion of Universe is itself a model. 
0704.01148	Aspects of stochastic resonance in reaction-diffusion systems: The  nonequilibrium-potential approach	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Horacio S. Wio (1), Roberto R. Deza (2) ((1) Instituto de Física de Cantabria, Universidad de Cantabria and CSIC, Santander, Spain, (2) Departamento de Física, FCEyN, Universidad Nacional de Mar del Plata, Mar del Plata, Argentina)	 Abstract: We analyze several aspects of the phenomenon of stochastic resonance in reaction-diffusion systems, exploiting the nonequilibrium potential's framework. The generalization of this formalism (sketched in the appendix) to extended systems is first carried out in the context of a simplified scalar model, for which stationary patterns can be found analytically. We first show how system-size stochastic resonance arises naturally in this framework, and then how the phenomenon of array-enhanced stochastic resonance can be further enhanced by letting the diffusion coefficient depend on the field. A yet less trivial generalization is exemplified by a stylized version of the FitzHugh-Nagumo system, a paradigm of the activator-inhibitor class. After discussing for this system the second aspect enumerated above, we derive from it -through an adiabatic-like elimination of the inhibitor field- an effective scalar model that includes a nonlocal contribution. Studying the role played by the range of the nonlocal kernel and its effect on stochastic resonance, we find an optimal range that maximizes the system's response. 
0704.01149	Distortion of Gravitational-Wave Packets Due to their Self-Gravity	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Bence Kocsis, Abraham Loeb (Harvard)	 Abstract: When a source emits a gravity-wave (GW) pulse over a short period of time, the leading edge of the GW signal is redshifted more than the inner boundary of the pulse. The GW pulse is distorted by the gravitational effect of the self-energy residing in between these shells. We illustrate this distortion for GW pulses from the final plunge of black hole (BH) binaries, leading to the evolution of the GW profile as a function of the radial distance from the source. The distortion depends on the total GW energy released and the duration of the emission, scaled by the total binary mass, M. The effect should be relevant in finite box simulations where the waveforms are extracted within a radius of <~ 100M. For characteristic emission parameters at the final plunge between binary BHs of arbitrary spins, this effect could distort the simulated GW templates for LIGO and LISA by a fraction of 0.001. Accounting for the wave distortion would significantly decrease the waveform extraction errors in numerical simulations. 
0704.01150	Fermionic approach to the evaluation of integrals of rational symmetric  functions	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:John Harnad, Alexander Yu. Orlov	 Abstract: We use the fermionic construction of two-matrix model partition functions to evaluate integrals over rational symmetric functions. This approach is complementary to the one used in the paper ``Integrals of Rational Symmetric Functions, Two-Matrix Models and Biorthogonal Polynomials'' \cite{paper2}, where these integrals were evaluated by a direct method. 
0704.01151	Old Main-Sequence Turnoff Photometry in the Small Magellanic Cloud. I.  Constraints on the Star Formation History in Different Fields	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Noelia E. D. Noel, Carme Gallart, Edgardo Costa, Rene A. Mendez	 Abstract: We present ground-based B and R-band color-magnitude diagrams (CMDs), reaching the oldest main-sequence turnoffs with good photometric accuracy for twelve fields in the Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC). Our fields, located between ~1 and ~4 degrees from the center of the galaxy, are situated in different parts of the SMC such as the "Wing'' area, and towards the West and South. In this paper we perform a first analysis of the stellar content in our SMC fields through comparison with theoretical isochrones and color functions (CFs). We find that the underlying spheroidally distributed population is composed of both intermediate-age and old stars and that its age composition does not show strong galacto-centric gradients. The three fields situated toward the east, in the Wing region, show very active current star formation. However, only in the eastern field closest to the center do we find an enhancement of recent star formation with respect to a constant SFR(t). The fields corresponding to the western side of the SMC present a much less populated young MS, and the CF analysis indicates that the SFR(t) greatly diminished around 2 Gyr ago in these parts. Field smc0057, the closest to the center of the galaxy and located in the southern part, shows recent star formation, while the rest of the southern fields present few bright MS stars. The structure of the red clump in all the CMDs is consistent with the large amount of intermediate-age stars inferred from the CMDs and color functions. None of the SMC fields presented here are dominated by old stellar populations, a fact that is in agreement with the lack of a conspicuous horizontal branch in all these SMC CMDs. This could indicate that a disk population is ruling over a possible old halo in all the observed fields. 
0704.01152	Curvature perturbations from ekpyrotic collapse with multiple fields	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Kazuya Koyama, Shuntaro Mizuno, David Wands	 Abstract: A scale-invariant spectrum of isocurvature perturbations is generated during collapse in the ekpyrotic scaling solution in models where multiple fields have steep negative exponential potentials. The scale invariance of the spectrum is realized by a tachyonic instability in the isocurvature field. This instability drives the scaling solution to the late time attractor that is the old ekpyrotic collapse dominated by a single field. We show that the transition from the scaling solution to the single field dominated ekpyrotic collapse automatically converts the initial isocurvature perturbations about the scaling solution to comoving curvature perturbations about the late-time attractor. The final amplitude of the comoving curvature perturbation is determined by the Hubble scale at the transition. 
0704.01153	Asymmetric Di-jet Production in Polarized Hadronic Collisions	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Jian-Wei Qiu, Werner Vogelsang, Feng Yuan	 Abstract: Using the collinear QCD factorization approach, we study the single-transverse-spin dependent cross section Delta sigma(S_perp) for the hadronic production of two jets of momenta P_1=P+q/2 and P_2=-P+q/2. We consider the kinematic region where the transverse components of the momentum vectors satisfy P_perp >> q_perp >> Lambda_QCD. For the case of initial-state gluon radiation, we show that at the leading power in q_perp/P_perp and at the lowest non-trivial perturbative order, the dependence of Delta sigma(S_perp) on q_perp decouples from that on P_perp, so that the cross section can be factorized into a hard part that is a function only of the single scale P_perp, and into perturbatively generated transverse-momentum dependent (TMD) parton distributions with transverse momenta k_perp = O(q_perp). 
0704.01154	Information, information processing and gravity	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Stephen D.H. Hsu	 Abstract: I discuss fundamental limits placed on information and information processing by gravity. Such limits arise because both information and its processing require energy, while gravitational collapse (formation of a horizon or black hole) restricts the amount of energy allowed in a finite region. Specifically, I use a criterion for gravitational collapse called the hoop conjecture. Once the hoop conjecture is assumed a number of results can be obtained directly: the existence of a fundamental uncertainty in spatial distance of order the Planck length, bounds on information (entropy) in a finite region, and a bound on the rate of information processing in a finite region. In the final section I discuss some cosmological issues related to the total amount of information in the universe, and note that almost all detailed aspects of the late universe are determined by the randomness of quantum outcomes. This paper is based on a talk presented at a 2007 Bellairs Research Institute (McGill University) workshop on black holes and quantum information. 
0704.01155	Noise-induced phase transitions: Effects of the noises' statistics and  spectrum	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Roberto R. Deza (1), Horacio S. Wio (2), Miguel A. Fuentes (3) ((1) Departamento de Física, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, Universidad Nacional de Mar del Plata, Argentina, (2) Instituto de Física de Cantabria (Universidad de Cantabria and CSIC), Santander, Spain, (3) Centro Atómico Bariloche (CNEA), Argentina, and Santa Fe Institute, Santa Fe, NM, USA)	 Abstract: The local, uncorrelated multiplicative noises driving a second-order, purely noise-induced, ordering phase transition (NIPT) were assumed to be Gaussian and white in the model of [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{73}, 3395 (1994)]. The potential scientific and technological interest of this phenomenon calls for a study of the effects of the noises' statistics and spectrum. This task is facilitated if these noises are dynamically generated by means of stochastic differential equations (SDE) driven by white noises. One such case is that of Ornstein--Uhlenbeck noises which are stationary, with Gaussian pdf and a variance reduced by the self-correlation time (\tau), and whose effect on the NIPT phase diagram has been studied some time ago. Another such case is when the stationary pdf is a (colored) Tsallis' (q)--\emph{Gaussian} which, being a \emph{fat-tail} distribution for (q>1) and a \emph{compact-support} one for (q<1), allows for a controlled exploration of the effects of the departure from Gaussian statistics. As done before with stochastic resonance and other phenomena, we now exploit this tool to study--within a simple mean-field approximation and with an emphasis on the \emph{order parameter} and the ``\emph{susceptibility}''--the combined effect on NIPT of the noises' statistics and spectrum. Even for relatively small (\tau), it is shown that whereas fat-tail noise distributions ((q>1)) counteract the effect of self-correlation, compact-support ones ((q<1)) enhance it. Also, an interesting effect on the susceptibility is seen in the last case. 
0704.01156	The Mid-Infrared Emission of M87	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:E. S. Perlman (FIT, UMBC/JCA), R. E. Mason (Gemini), Christopher Packham (Florida), N. A. Levenson, M. Elitzur (Kentucky), Justin J. Schaefer (Florida), Masatoshi Imanishi (NAO), William B. Sparks (STScI), James Radomski (Gemini)	 Abstract: We discuss Subaru and Spitzer Space Telescope imaging and spectroscopy of M87 in the mid-infrared from 5-35 um. These observations allow us to investigate mid-IR emission mechanisms in the core of M87 and to establish that the flaring, variable jet component HST-1 is not a major contributor to the mid-IR flux. The Spitzer data include a high signal-to-noise 15-35 $\mu$m spectrum of the knot A/B complex in the jet, which is consistent with synchrotron emission. However, a synchrotron model cannot account for the observed {\it nuclear} spectrum, even when contributions from the jet, necessary due to the degrading of resolution with wavelength, are included. The Spitzer data show a clear excess in the spectrum of the nucleus at wavelengths longer than 25 um, which we model as thermal emission from cool dust at a characteristic temperature of 55 \pm 10 K, with an IR luminosity \sim 10^{39} {\rm ~erg ~s^{-1}}. Given Spitzer's few-arcsecond angular resolution, the dust seen in the nuclear spectrum could be located anywhere within ~5'' (390 pc) of the nucleus. In any case, the ratio of AGN thermal to bolometric luminosity indicates that M87 does not contain the IR-bright torus that classical unified AGN schemes invoke. However, this result is consistent with theoretical predictions for low-luminosity AGNs 
0704.01157	Fermionic construction of tau functions and random processes	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:John Harnad, Alexander Yu. Orlov	 Abstract: Tau functions expressed as fermionic expectation values are shown to provide a natural and straightforward description of a number of random processes and statistical models involving hard core configurations of identical particles on the integer lattice, like a discrete version simple exclusion processes (ASEP), nonintersecting random walkers, lattice Coulomb gas models and others, as well as providing a powerful tool for combinatorial calculations involving paths between pairs of partitions. We study the decay of the initial step function within the discrete ASEP (d-ASEP) model as an example. 
0704.01158	Novelty and Collective Attention	Computers and Society (cs.CY)	Authors:Fang Wu, Bernardo A. Huberman	 Abstract: The subject of collective attention is central to an information age where millions of people are inundated with daily messages. It is thus of interest to understand how attention to novel items propagates and eventually fades among large populations. We have analyzed the dynamics of collective attention among one million users of an interactive website -- \texttt{digg.com} -- devoted to thousands of novel news stories. The observations can be described by a dynamical model characterized by a single novelty factor. Our measurements indicate that novelty within groups decays with a stretched-exponential law, suggesting the existence of a natural time scale over which attention fades. 
0704.01159	Characterization of open cluster remnants	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D.B Pavani, E.Bica	 Abstract: Despite progress in the theoretical knowledge of open cluster remnants and the growing search for observational identifications in recent years, open questions still remain. The methods used to analyze open cluster remnants and criteria to define them as physical systems are not homogeneous. In this work we present a systematic method for studying these objects that provides a view of their properties and allows their characterization. Eighteen remnant candidates are analyzed by means of photometric and proper motion data. These data provide information on objects and their fields. We establish criteria for characterizing open cluster remnants, taking observational uncertainties into account. 2MASS J and H photometry is employed (i) to study structural properties of the objects by means of radial stellar density profiles, (ii) to test for any similarity between objects and fields with a statistical comparison method applied to the distributions of stars in the CMDs, and (iii) to obtain ages, reddening values, and distances from the CMD, taking an index of isochrone fit into account. The UCAC2 proper motions allowed an objective comparison between objects and large solid angle offset fields. The objective analysis based on the present methods indicates 13 open-cluster remnants in the sample. Evidence of the presence of binary stars is found, as expected for dynamically evolved systems. Finally, we infer possible evolutionary stages among remnants from the structure, proper motion, and CMD distributions. The low stellar statistics for individual objects is overcome by means of the construction of composite proper motion and CMD diagrams. The distributions of remnants in the composite diagrams resemble the single-star and unresolved binary star distributions of open clusters. 
0704.01160	Hall conductivity from dyonic black holes	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Sean A. Hartnoll, Pavel Kovtun	 Abstract: A class of strongly interacting 2+1 dimensional conformal field theories in a transverse magnetic field can be studied using the AdS/CFT duality. We compute zero momentum hydrodynamic response functions of maximally supersymmetric 2+1 dimensional SU(N) Yang-Mills theory at the conformal fixed point, in the large N limit. With background magnetic field B and electric charge density rho, the Hall conductivity is found to be rho/B. The result, anticipated on kinematic grounds in field theory, is obtained from perturbations of a four dimensional AdS black hole with both electric and magnetic charges. 
0704.01161	The Fincher-Burke spin excitations and omega/T scaling in the insulating  5% Sr-doped La2CuO4	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Wei Bao, Ying Chen, K. Yamada, A. T. Savici, P. L. Russo, J. E. Lorenzo, J.-H. Chung	 Abstract: Insulating La1.95Sr0.05CuO4 shares with superconducting cuprates the same Fincher-Burke-like spin excitations, which usually are observed in itinerant antiferromagnets. The local spectral function satisfies omega/T scaling above ~16 K for this incommensurate insulating cuprate. Together with previous results in commensurate insulating and incommensurate superconducting cuprates, these results further support the general scaling prediction for square-lattice quantum spin S=1/2 systems. The width of incommensurate peaks in La1.95Sr0.05CuO4 scales to a similar finite value as at optimal doping, strongly suggesting that they are similarly distant from a quantum critical point. They might both be limited to a finite correlation length by the partial spin-glass freezing. 
0704.01162	Binary Capture Rates for Massive Protostars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nickolas Moeckel, John Bally	 Abstract: The high multiplicity of massive stars in dense, young clusters is established early in their evolution. The mechanism behind this remains unresolved. Recent results suggest that massive protostars may capture companions through disk interactions with much higher efficiency than their solar mass counterparts. However, this conclusion is based on analytic determinations of capture rates and estimates of the robustness of the resulting binaries. We present the results of coupled n-body and SPH simulations of star-disk encounters to further test the idea that disk-captured binaries contribute to the observed multiplicity of massive stars. 
0704.01163	Sharp Asymptotics for KPP Pulsating Front Speed-up and Diffusion  Enhancement by Flows	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Andrej Zlatos	 Abstract: We study KPP pulsating front speed-up and effective diffusivity enhancement by general periodic incompressible flows. We prove the existence of and determine the limits $c^*(A)/A$ and $D(A)/A^2$ as $A\to\infty$, where $c^*(A)$ is the minimal front speed and $D(A)$ the effective diffusivity. 
0704.01164	Pulsating Front Speed-up and Quenching of Reaction by Fast Advection	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Andrej Zlatos	 Abstract: We consider reaction-diffusion equations with combustion-type non-linearities in two dimensions and study speed-up of their pulsating fronts by general periodic incompressible flows with a cellular structure. We show that the occurence of front speed-up in the sense $\lim_{A\to\infty} c_*(A)=\infty$, with $A$ the amplitude of the flow and $c_*(A)$ the (minimal) front speed, only depends on the geometry of the flow and not on the reaction function. In particular, front speed-up happens for KPP reactions if and only if it does for ignition reactions. We also show that the flows which achieve this speed-up are precisely those which, when scaled properly, are able to quench any ignition reaction. 
0704.01165	Electroweak Higgs as a pseudo-Goldstone boson of broken scale invariance	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Robert Foot, Archil Kobakhidze, Raymond R. Volkas	 Abstract: We point out that it is possible to associate the electroweak Higgs boson with the pseudo-Goldstone boson of broken scale invariance, thus resolving the hierarchy problem in a technically natural way. We illustrate this idea with two specific gauge models. Besides being consistent with all currently available experimental data, both models maintain the predictive power of the standard model, since the first model has only one additional parameter beyond the standard model, and the second has the same number of free parameters as the standard model. 
0704.01166	A linear reformulation of the Kuramoto model of self-synchronizing  oscillators	Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)	Authors:David C. Roberts	 Abstract: The present paper introduces a linear reformulation of the Kuramoto model describing a self-synchronizing phase transition in a system of globally coupled oscillators that in general have different characteristic frequencies. The reformulated model provides an alternative coherent framework through which one can analytically tackle synchronization problems that are not amenable to the original Kuramoto analysis. It allows one to solve explicitly for the synchronization order parameter and the critical point of 1) the full phase-locking transition for a system with a finite number of oscillators (unlike the original Kuramoto model, which is solvable implicitly only in the mean-field limit) and 2) a new class of continuum systems. It also makes it possible to probe the system's dynamics as it moves towards a steady state. While discussion in this paper is restricted to systems with global coupling, the new formalism introduced by the linear reformulation also lends itself to solving systems that exhibit local or asymmetric coupling. 
0704.01167	Electron Transport in Nanogranular Ferromagnets	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:I.S. Beloborodov, A. Glatz, V.M. Vinokur	 Abstract: We study electronic transport properties of ferromagnetic nanoparticle arrays and nanodomain materials near the Curie temperature in the limit of weak coupling between the grains. We calculate the conductivity in the Ohmic and non-Ohmic regimes and estimate the magnetoresistance jump in the resistivity at the transition temperature. The results are applicable for many emerging materials, including artificially self-assembled nanoparticle arrays and a certain class of manganites, where localization effects within the clusters can be neglected. 
0704.01168	Electronic Properties of Carbon Nanotubes Calculated from Density  Functional Theory and the Empirical pi-Bond Model	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Deep Shah, Nicolas A. Bruque, Khairul Alam, Roger K. Lake, Rajeev R. Pandey	 Abstract: The validity of the DFT models implemented by FIREBALL for CNT electronic device modeling is assessed. The effective masses, band gaps, and transmission coefficients of semi-conducting, zigzag, (n,0) carbon nanotubes (CNTs) resulting from the ab initio tight-binding density functional theory (DFT) code FIREBALL and the empirical, nearest-neighbor pi-bond model are compared for all semiconducting n values 5 <(=) n <(=) 35. The DFT values for the effective masses differ from the pi-bond values by +(-) 9% over the range of n values, 17 <(=) n <(=) 29, most important for electronic device applications. Over the range 13 <(=) n <(=) 35, the DFT bandgaps are less than the empirical bandgaps by 20-180 meV depending on the functional and the n value. The pi-bond model gives results that differ signifcantly from the DFT results when the CNT diameter goes below 1 nm due to the large curvature of the CNT. The pi-bond model quickly becomes inaccurate away from the bandedges for a (10, 0) CNT, and it is completely inaccurate for n <(=) 8. 
0704.01169	Holographic bound and protein linguistics	Genomics (q-bio.GN)	Authors:Dirson Jian Li, Shengli Zhang	 Abstract: The holographic bound in physics constrains the complexity of life. The finite storage capability of information in the observable universe requires the protein linguistics in the evolution of life. We find that the evolution of genetic code determines the variance of amino acid frequencies and genomic GC content among species. The elegant linguistic mechanism is confirmed by the experimental observations based on all known entire proteomes. 
0704.01170	Externally-polluted white dwarfs with dust disks	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Jura (UCLA), J. Farihi (Gemini), B. Zuckerman (UCLA)	 Abstract: We report Spitzer Space Telescope photometry of eleven externally-polluted white dwarfs. Of the nine stars for which we have IRAC photometry, we find that GD 40, GD 133 and PG 1015+161 each has an infrared excess that can be understood as arising from a flat, opaque, dusty disk. GD 56 also has an infrared excess characteristic of circumstellar dust, but a flat-disk model cannot reproduce the data unless there are grains as warm as 1700 K and perhaps not even then. Our data support the previous suggestion that the metals in the atmosphere of GD 40 are the result of accretion of a tidally-disrupted asteroid with a chondritic composition. 
0704.01171	Highly synchronized noise-driven oscillatory behavior of a  FitzHugh-Nagumo ring with phase-repulsive coupling	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Gonzalo G. Izús, Roberto R. Deza, Alejandro D. Sánchez (Departamento de Física, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, Universidad Nacional de Mar del Plata, Argentina)	 Abstract: We investigate a ring of $N$ FitzHugh--Nagumo elements coupled in \emph{phase-repulsive} fashion and submitted to a (subthreshold) common oscillatory signal and independent Gaussian white noises. This system can be regarded as a reduced version of the one studied in [Phys. Rev. E \textbf{64}, 041912 (2001)], although externally forced and submitted to noise. The noise-sustained synchronization of the system with the external signal is characterized. 
0704.01172	Disentanglement in a quantum critical environment	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Zhe Sun, Xiaoguang Wang, C. P. Sun	 Abstract: We study the dynamical process of disentanglement of two qubits and two qutrits coupled to an Ising spin chain in a transverse field, which exhibits a quantum phase transition. We use the concurrence and negativity to quantify entanglement of two qubits and two qutrits, respectively. Explicit connections between the concurrence (negativity) and the decoherence factors are given for two initial states, the pure maximally entangled state and the mixed Werner state. We find that the concurrence and negativity decay exponentially with fourth power of time in the vicinity of critical point of the environmental system. 
0704.01173	The Deviation of the Vacuum Refractive Index Induced by a Static  Gravitational Field	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Xing-Hao Ye, Qiang Lin	 Abstract: We analyzed the influence of static gravitational field on the vacuum and proposed the concept of inhomogeneous vacuum. According to the observational result of the light deflection in solar gravitational field as well as the corresponding Fermat's principle in the general relativity, we derived an analytical expression of the refractive index of vacuum in a static gravitational field. We found that the deviation of the vacuum refractive index is composed of two parts: one is caused by the time dilation effect, the other is caused by the length contraction effect. As an application, we simulated the effect of the gravitational lensing through computer programming and found that the missing central imaging could be interpreted in a reasonable way. 
0704.01174	Deaconstructing Functions on Quadratic Surfaces into Multipoles	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Gabriel Katz	 Abstract: Any homogeneous polynomial $P(x, y, z)$ of degree $d$, being restricted to a unit sphere $S^2$, admits essentially a unique representation of the form $\lambda + \sum_{k = 1}^d [\prod_{j = 1}^k L_{kj}]$, where $L_{kj}$'s are linear forms in $x, y$ and $z$ and $\lambda$ is a real number. The coefficients of these linear forms, viewed as 3D vectors, are called \emph{multipole} vectors of $P$. In this paper we consider similar multipole representations of polynomial and analytic functions on other quadratic surfaces $Q(x, y, z) = c$, real and complex. Over the complex numbers, the above representation is not unique, although the ambiguity is essentially finite. We investigate the combinatorics that depicts this ambiguity. We link these results with some classical theorems of harmonic analysis, theorems that describe decompositions of functions into sums of spherical harmonics. We extend these classical theorems (which rely on our understanding of the Laplace operator $\Delta_{S^2}$) to more general differential operators $\Delta_Q$ that are constructed with the help of the quadratic form $Q(x, y, z)$. Then we introduce modular spaces of multipoles. We study their intricate geometry and topology using methods of algebraic geometry and singularity theory. The multipole spaces are ramified over vector or projective spaces, and the compliments to the ramification sets give rise to a rich family of $K(\pi, 1)$-spaces, where $\pi$ runs over a variety of modified braid groups. 
0704.01175	Complete synchronization of convective patterns between Gray-Scott  systems	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Gonzalo G. Izús (1), Roberto R. Deza (1), Luis Bernal (1), Vicente Pérez-Villar (2) (1) (Departamento de Física, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, Universidad Nacional de Mar del Plata, Argentina) (2) (Grupo de Física Non Lineal, Facultade de Física, Universidade de Santiago de Compostela, Spain)	 Abstract: Two identical 1D autocatalytic systems with Gray--Scott kinetics--driven towards convectively unstable regimes and submitted to independent spatiotemporal Gaussian white noises--are coupled unidirectionally, but otherwise linearly. Numerical simulation then reveals that (even when perturbed by noise) the slave system replicates the convective patterns arising in the master one to a very high degree of precision, as indicated by several measures of synchronization. 
0704.01176	Hydrodynamical model atmospheres and 3D spectral synthesis	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Hans-G. Ludwig, Matthias Steffen	 Abstract: We discuss three issues in the context of three-dimensional (3D) hydrodynamical model atmospheres for late-type stars, related to spectral line shifts, radiative transfer in metal-poor 3D models, and the solar oxygen abundance. We include a brief overview about the model construction, taking the radiation-hydrodynamics code CO5BOLD (COnservative COde for the COmputation of COmpressible COnvection in a BOx of L Dimensions with L=2,3) and the related spectral synthesis package Linfor3D as examples. 
0704.01177	Temperature effects on quantum cloning of states and entanglement	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:S. Baghbanzadeh, A. T. Rezakhani	 Abstract: Performances of the symmetric universal and phase-covariant cloning transformations and entanglement cloners -- qubit case -- are investigated when the initial state of the hardware or the original state to be cloned is weakly coupled to a thermal environment. Different behaviors of each of these transformations are analyzed and contrasted with the ideal cases. 
0704.01178	Large Gauge Hierarchy in Gauge-Higgs Unification	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Kazunori Takenaga	 Abstract: We study a five dimensional nonsupersymmetric SU(3) gauge theory compactified on $M^4\times S^1/Z_2$. The gauge hierarchy is discussed in the scenario of the gauge-Higgs unification. We present two models in which the large gauge hierarchy is realized, that is, the weak scale is naturally is obtained from an unique large scale such as a GUT and the Planck scale. We also study the Higgs mass in each model. 
0704.01179	Self-organized metal nanostructures through laser driven thermocapillary  convection	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:C. Favazza, J. Trice, R. Kalyanaraman, R. Sureshkumar	 Abstract: When ultrathin metal films are subjected to multiple cycles of rapid melting and resolidification by a ns pulsed laser, spatially correlated interfacial nanostructures can result from a competition among several possible thin film self-organizing processes. Here we investigate self-organization and the ensuing length scales when Co films (1-8 nm thick) on SiO_{\text{2}} surfaces are repeatedly and rapidly melted by non-uniform (interference) laser irradiation. Pattern evolution produces nanowires, which eventually break-up into nanoparticles exhibiting spatial order in the nearest neighbor spacing, \lambda_{NN2}.The scaling behavior is consistent with pattern formation by thermocapillary flow and a Rayleigh-like instability. For h_{0}\leq2 nm, a hydrodynamic instability of a spinodally unstable film leads to the formation of nanoparticles. 
0704.01180	Full Additivity of the Entanglement of Formation	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Gerardo A. Paz-Silva, John H. Reina	 Abstract: We present a general strategy that allows a more flexible method for the construction of fully additive multipartite entanglement monotones than the ones so far reported in the literature of axiomatic entanglement measures. Within this framework we give a proof of a conjecture of outstanding implications in information theory: the full additivity of the Entanglement of Formation. 
0704.01181	Simulation of four-body interaction in a nuclear magnetic resonance  quantum information processor	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Wen-Zhang Liu, Jin-Fu Zhang, Gui Lu Long	 Abstract: Four-body interaction plays an important role in many-body systems, and it can exhibit interesting phase transition behaviors. Historically it was the need to efficiently simulate quantum systems that lead the idea of a quantum computer. In this Letter, we report the experimental demonstration of a four-body interaction in a four- qubit nuclear magnetic resonance quantum information processor. The strongly modulating pulse is used to implement spin selective excitation. The results show a good agreement between theory and experiment. 
0704.01182	An Optical Source Catalog of the North Ecliptic Pole Region	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Narae Hwang (1), Myung Gyoon Lee (1), Hyung Mok Lee (1), Myungshin Im (1), Taehyun Kim (1), Hideo Matsuhara (2), Takehiko Wada (2), Shinki Oyabu (2), Soojong Pak (3), Moo-Young Chun (4), Hidenori Watarai (5), Takao Nakagawa (4), Chris Pearson (2,6), Toshinobu Takagi (2), Hitoshi Hanami (7), Glenn J. White (8,9) ((1) SNU Korea, (2) ISAS JAXA Japan, (3)KHU Korea, (4)KASI Korea, (5) OSA JAXA Japan, (6) ESA Spain, (7) Iwate Univ. Japan, (8) Open Univ. UK, (9) CCLRC RAL UK)	 Abstract: We present a five (u*,g',r',i',z') band optical photometry catalog of the sources in the North Ecliptic Pole (NEP) region based on deep observations made with MegaCam at CFHT. The source catalog covers about 2 square degree area centered at the NEP and reaches depths of about 26 mag for u*, g', r' bands, about 25 mag for i' band, and about 24 mag for z' band (4 sigma detection over an 1 arcsec aperture). The total number of cataloged sources brighter than r'= 23 mag is about 56,000 including both point sources and extended sources. From the investigation of photometric properties using the color-magnitude diagrams and color-color diagrams, we have found that the colors of extended sources are mostly (u*-r') < 3.0 and (g'-z') > 0.5. This can be used to separate the extended sources from the point sources reliably, even for the faint source domain where typical morphological classification schemes hardly work efficiently. We have derived an empirical color-redshift relation of the red sequence galaxies using the Sloan Digital Sky Survey data. By applying this relation to our photometry catalog and searching for any spatial overdensities, we have found two galaxy clusters and one nearby galaxy group. 
0704.01183	Confirmation of Cylindrical Perfect Invisibility Cloak Using  Fourier-Bessel Analysis	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Zhichao Ruan, Min Yan, Curtis W. Neff, Min Qiu	 Abstract: A cylindrical wave expansion method is developed to obtain the scattering field for an ideal two-dimensional cylindrical invisibility cloak. A near-ideal model of the invisibility cloak is set up to solve the boundary problem at the inner boundary of the cloak shell. We confirm that a cloak with the ideal material parameters is a perfect invisibility cloak by systematically studying the change of the scattering coefficients from the near-ideal case to the ideal one. However, due to the slow convergence of the zero$^{th}$ order scattering coefficients, a tiny perturbation on the cloak would induce a noticeable field scattering and penetration. 
0704.01184	Sufficiency Criterion for the Validity of the Adiabatic Approximation	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:D M Tong, K Singh, L C Kwek, C H OH	 Abstract: We examine the quantitative condition which has been widely used as a criterion for the adiabatic approximation but was recently found insufficient. Our results indicate that the usual quantitative condition is sufficient for a special class of quantum mechanical systems. For general systems, it may not be sufficient, but it along with additional conditions is sufficient. The usual quantitative condition and the additional conditions constitute a general criterion for the validity of the adiabatic approximation, which is applicable to all $N-$dimensional quantum systems. Moreover, we illustrate the use of the general quantitative criterion in some physical models. 
0704.01185	Five-dimensional N = 1 AdS superspace: Geometry, off-shell multiplets  and dynamics	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Sergei M. Kuzenko, Gabriele Tartaglino-Mazzucchelli	 Abstract: As a step towards formulating projective superspace techniques for supergravity theories with eight supercharges, this work is devoted to field theory in five-dimensional N = 1 anti-de Sitter superspace AdS^{5|8} = SU(2,2|1)/SO(4,1) x U(1) which is a maximally symmetric curved background. We develop the differential geometry of AdS^{5|8} and describe its isometries in terms of Killing supervectors. Various off-shell supermultiplets in AdS^{5|8} x S^2 are defined, and supersymmetric actions are constructed both in harmonic and projective superspace approaches. Several families of supersymmetric theories are presented including nonlinear sigma-models, Chern-Simons theories and vector-tensor dynamical systems. Using a suitable coset representative, we make use of the coset construction to develop an explicit realization for one half of the superspace AdS^{5|8} as a trivial fiber bundle with fibers isomorophic to four-dimensional Minkowski superspace. 
0704.01186	Domain wall entropy of the bimodal two-dimensional Ising spin glass	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:A. Aromsawa, J. Poulter	 Abstract: We report calculations of the domain wall entropy for the bimodal two-dimensional Ising spin glass in the critical ground state. The L * L system sizes are large with L up to 256. We find that it is possible to fit the variance of the domain wall entropy to a power function of L. However, the quality of the data distributions are unsatisfactory with large L > 96. Consequently, it is not possible to reliably determine the fractal dimension of the domain walls. 
0704.01187	Magnetic structure of CeRhIn$_{5}$ under magnetic field	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:S. Raymond, E. Ressouche, G. Knebel, D. Aoki, J. Flouquet	 Abstract: The magnetically ordered ground state of CeRhIn$_{5}$ at ambient pressure and zero magnetic field is an incomensurate helicoidal phase with the propagation vector $\bf{k}$=(1/2, 1/2, 0.298) and the magnetic moment in the basal plane of the tetragonal structure. We determined by neutron diffraction the two different magnetically ordered phases of CeRhIn$_{5}$ evidenced by bulk measurements under applied magnetic field in its basal plane. The low temperature high magnetic phase corresponds to a sine-wave structure of the magnetization being commensurate with $\bf{k}$=(1/2, 1/2, 1/4). At high temperature, the phase is incommensurate with $\bf{k}$=(1/2, 1/2, 0.298) and a possible small ellipticity. The propagation vector of this phase is the same as the one of the zero-field structure. 
0704.01188	Fermionic Collective Modes in QGP near Critical Temperatures	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Yukio Nemoto, Masakiyo Kitazawa, Tomoi Koide, Teiji Kunihiro	 Abstract: We investigate the quark spectrum in the quark-gluon plasma phase near color superconducting (CS) and chiral phase transitions. Owing to the precursory soft modes of the phase transitions, there appear novel excitaion spectra: In the CS transition, the quark matter shows non-Fermi liquid behavior and leads to the pseudogap in the density of states of quarks. In the chiral transition, three collective excitations appear in the quark spectrum. 
0704.01189	The Kinematics and Dynamics of the Globular Clusters and the Planetary  Nebulae of NGC 5128	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Kristin A. Woodley (1), William E. Harris (1), Michael A. Beasley (2), Eric W. Peng (3), Terry J. Bridges (4), Duncan A. Forbes (5), Gretchen L.H. Harris (6) ((1) McMaster University, (2) Instituto de Astrofisica de Canarias, (3) Herzberg Institute of Astrophysics, (4) Queen's University, (5) Swinburne University, (6) University of Waterloo)	 Abstract: A new kinematic and dynamic study of the halo of the giant elliptical galaxy, NGC 5128, is presented. From a spectroscopically confirmed sample of 340 globular clusters and 780 planetary nebulae, the rotation amplitude, rotation axis, velocity dispersion, and the total dynamical mass are determined for the halo of NGC 5128. The globular cluster kinematics were searched for both radial dependence and metallicity dependence by subdividing the globular cluster sample into 158 metal-rich ([Fe/H] > -1.0) and 178 metal-poor ([Fe/H] < -1.0) globular clusters. Our results show the kinematics of the metal-rich and metal-poor subpopulations are quite similar. The kinematics are compared to the planetary nebula population where differences are apparent in the outer regions of the halo. The total mass of NGC 5128 is found using the Tracer Mass estimator (Evans et al. 2003), to determine the mass supported by internal random motions, and the spherical component of the Jeans equation to determine the mass supported by rotation. We find a total mass of (1.0+/-0.2) x 10^(12) Msun from the planetary nebulae data out to a projected radius of 90 kpc and (1.3+/-0.5) x 10^(12) Msun from the globular clusters out to a projected radius of 50 kpc. Lastly, we present a new and homogeneous catalog of known globular clusters in NGC 5128. This catalog combines all previous definitive cluster identifications from radial velocity studies and HST imaging studies, as well as 80 new globular clusters from a study of M.A. Beasley et al. (2007, in preparation). 
0704.01190	Topological Properties of Phase Singularities in Wave Fields	Geophysics (physics.geo-ph)	Authors:Yi-Shi Duan, Ji-Rong Ren, Tao Zhu	 Abstract: Phase singularities as topological objects of wave fields appear in a variety of physical, chemical, and biological scenarios. In this paper, by making use of the $\phi$-mapping topological current theory, we study the topological properties of the phase singularities in two and three dimensional space in details. The topological inner structure of the phase singularities are obtained, and the topological charge of the phase singularities are expressed by the topological numbers: Hopf indices and Brouwer degrees. Furthermore, the topological invariant of the closed and knotted phase singularities in three dimensional space are also discussed in details. 
0704.01191	Five Intermediate-Period Planets from the N2K Sample	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Debra A. Fischer, Steven S. Vogt, Geoffrey W. Marcy, R. Paul Butler, Bun'ei Sato, Gregory W. Henry, Sarah Robinson, Gregory Laughlin, Shigeru Ida, Eri Toyota, Masashi Omiya, Peter Driscoll, Genya Takeda, Jason T. Wright, John A. Johnson	 Abstract: We report the detection of five Jovian mass planets orbiting high metallicity stars. Four of these stars were first observed as part of the N2K program and exhibited low RMS velocity scatter after three consecutive observations. However, follow-up observations over the last three years now reveal the presence of longer period planets with orbital periods ranging from 21 days to a few years. HD 11506 is a G0V star with a planet of \msini = 4.74 \mjup in a 3.85 year orbit. HD 17156 is a G0V star with a 3.12 \mjup planet in a 21.2 day orbit. The eccentricity of this orbit is 0.67, one of the highest known for a planet with a relatively short period. The orbital period for this planet places it in a region of parameter space where relatively few planets have been detected. HD 125612 is a G3V star with a planet of \msini = 3.5 \mjup in a 1.4 year orbit. HD 170469 is a G5IV star with a planet of \msini = 0.67 \mjup in a 3.13 year orbit. HD 231701 is an F8V star with planet of 1.08 \mjup in a 142 day orbit. All of these stars have supersolar metallicity. Three of the five stars were observed photometrically but showed no evidence of brightness variability. A transit search conducted for HD 17156 was negative but covered only 25% of the search space and so is not conclusive. 
0704.01192	Arithmetic homology and an integral version of Katos conjecture	K-Theory and Homology (math.KT)	Authors:Thomas Geisser	 Abstract: We define an integral Borel-Moore homology theory over finite fields, called arithmetic homology, and an integral version of Kato homology. Both types of groups are expected to be finitely generated, and sit in a long exact sequence with higher Chow groups of zero-cycles. 
0704.01193	Production of Anticentauro Events in Ultra-Relativistic Heavy Ion  Collisions	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:G. Sood	 Abstract: We propose a novel method for studying the production of anticentauro events in high energy heavy ion collisions utilizing Chebyshev expansion coefficients. These coefficients have proved to be very efficient in investigating the pattern of fluctuations in neutral pion fraction. For the anticentauro like events, the magnitude of first few coefficients is strongly enhanced (~3 times) as compared to those of normal HIJING events. Various characteristics of Chebyshev coefficients are studied in detail and the probability of formation of exotic events is calculated from the simulated events. 
0704.01194	Finite-size scaling of pseudo-critical point distributions in the random  transverse-field Ising chain	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Ferenc Iglói, Yu-Cheng Lin, Heiko Rieger, Cécile Monthus	 Abstract: We study the distribution of finite size pseudo-critical points in a one-dimensional random quantum magnet with a quantum phase transition described by an infinite randomness fixed point. Pseudo-critical points are defined in three different ways: the position of the maximum of the average entanglement entropy, the scaling behavior of the surface magnetization, and the energy of a soft mode. All three lead to a log-normal distribution of the pseudo-critical transverse fields, where the width scales as $L^{-1/\nu}$ with $\nu=2$ and the shift of the average value scales as $L^{-1/\nu_{typ}}$ with $\nu_{typ}=1$, which we related to the scaling of average and typical quantities in the critical region. 
0704.01195	On the Kaehler rank of compact complex surfaces	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Matei Toma	 Abstract: Harvey and Lawson introduced the Kaehler rank and computed it in connection to the cone of positive exact currents of bidimension (1,1) for many classes of compact complex surfaces. In this paper we extend these computations to the only further known class of surfaces not considered by them, that of Kato surfaces. Our main tool is the reduction to the dynamics of associated holomorphic contractions. 
0704.01196	Novel algorithm to calculate hypervolume indicator of Pareto  approximation set	Computational Geometry (cs.CG)	Authors:Qing Yang, Shengchao Ding	 Abstract: Hypervolume indicator is a commonly accepted quality measure for comparing Pareto approximation set generated by multi-objective optimizers. The best known algorithm to calculate it for $n$ points in $d$-dimensional space has a run time of $O(n^{d/2})$ with special data structures. This paper presents a recursive, vertex-splitting algorithm for calculating the hypervolume indicator of a set of $n$ non-comparable points in $d>2$ dimensions. It splits out multiple child hyper-cuboids which can not be dominated by a splitting reference point. In special, the splitting reference point is carefully chosen to minimize the number of points in the child hyper-cuboids. The complexity analysis shows that the proposed algorithm achieves $O((\frac{d}{2})^n)$ time and $O(dn^2)$ space complexity in the worst case. 
0704.01197	Statistical properties of giant pulses from the Crab pulsar	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M.V. Popov, B. Stappers	 Abstract: We have studied the statistics of giant pulses from the Crab pulsar for the first time with particular reference to their widths. We have analyzed data collected during 3.5 hours of observations conducted with the Westerbork Synthesis Radio Telescope operated in a tied-array mode at a frequency of 1200 MHz. The PuMa pulsar backend provided voltage recording of X and Y linear polarization states in two conjugate 10 MHz bands. We restricted the time resolution to 4 microseconds to match the scattering on the interstellar inhomogeneities. In total about 18000 giant pulses (GP) were detected in full intensity with a threshold level of 6 sigma. Cumulative probability distributions (CPD) of giant pulse energies were analyzed for groups of GPs with different effective widths in the range 4 to 65 microseconds. The CPDs were found to manifest notable differences for the different GP width groups. The slope of a power-law fit to the high-energy portion of the CPDs evolves from -1.7 to -3.2 when going from the shortest to the longest GPs. There are breaks in the CPD power-law fits indicating flattening at low energies with indices varying from -1.0 to -1.9 for the short and long GPs respectively. The GPs with a stronger peak flux density were found to be of shorter duration. We compare our results with previously published data and discuss the importance of these peculiarities in the statistical properties of GPs for the heoretical understanding of the emission mechanism responsible for GP generation. 
0704.01198	A Doubly Distributed Genetic Algorithm for Network Coding	Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)	Authors:Minkyu Kim, Varun Aggarwal, Una-May O'Reilly, Muriel Medard	 Abstract: We present a genetic algorithm which is distributed in two novel ways: along genotype and temporal axes. Our algorithm first distributes, for every member of the population, a subset of the genotype to each network node, rather than a subset of the population to each. This genotype distribution is shown to offer a significant gain in running time. Then, for efficient use of the computational resources in the network, our algorithm divides the candidate solutions into pipelined sets and thus the distribution is in the temporal domain, rather that in the spatial domain. This temporal distribution may lead to temporal inconsistency in selection and replacement, however our experiments yield better efficiency in terms of the time to convergence without incurring significant penalties. 
0704.01199	Study of resonant processes for multi-pion production in $\bar p  +p\to\ell ^++\ell^- +n_ππ$ annihilation	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:E. A. Kuraev, C. Adamuscin, E. Tomasi-Gustafsson, F. Maas	 Abstract: In frame of a phenomenological approach based on Compton-like Feynman amplitudes, we study multi-pion production in antiproton nucleon collisions. The main interest of this reaction is related to the possibility to study the properties of the presumable $\bar N N$ atom and of its resonances. For the case of formation of a scalar or pseudoscalar resonant state, with $I^G(J^{P})=1^-(0^{\pm}),~0^+(0^-)$ numerical results are obtained. The differential cross section in an experimental set-up where the pions invariant mass is measured, is given with explicit dependence on the lepton pair and pions invariant mass. 
0704.01200	Low frequency dispersive estimates for the Schrodinger group in higher  dimensions	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Simon Moulin, Georgi Vodev	 Abstract: We prove dispersive estimates for the low frequency part of the Schrodinger group for a large class of potentials in dimensions greater or equal to four. As a consequence, we extend the result of Journe, Sofer and Sogge to a larger class of potentials. In this revised version a mistake in the proof of the estimate (B.4) is removed. 
0704.01201	Evaluation of the Axial Vector Commutator Sum Rule for Pion-Pion  Scattering	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Stephen L. Adler, F. J. Yndurain	 Abstract: We consider the sum rule proposed by one of us (SLA), obtained by taking the expectation value of an axial vector commutator in a state with one pion. The sum rule relates the pion decay constant to integrals of pion-pion cross sections, with one pion off the mass shell. We remark that recent data on pion-pion scattering allow a precise evaluation of the sum rule. We also discuss the related Adler--Weisberger sum rule (obtained by taking the expectation value of the same commutator in a state with one nucleon), especially in connection with the problem of extrapolation of the pion momentum off its mass shell. We find, with current data, that both the pion-pion and pion-nucleon sum rules are satisfied to better than six percent, and we give detailed estimates of the experimental and extrapolation errors in the closure discrepancies. 
0704.01202	Colour pairs for constraining the age and metallicity of stellar  populations	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Zhongmu Li, Zhanwen Han	 Abstract: Using a widely used stellar population synthesis model, we study the ability of using pairs of AB system colours to break the well-known stellar age--metallicity degeneracy and give constraints on the two stellar-population parameters (age and metallicity). The relative age and metallicity sensitivities of AB system colours that relate to u, B, g, V, r, R, i, I, z, J, H, and K bands are presented, and the abilities of various colour pairs for breaking the age--metallicity degeneracy are quantified by an uncertainty parameter (UP) method. Our results suggest that a few pairs of colours can be used to constrain the two above stellar-population parameters. This will be very useful for exploring the stellar populations of distant galaxies. In detail, colour pairs [(r-K), (u-R)] and [(r-K), (u-r)] are shown to be the best pairs for estimating stellar ages and metallicities. They can constrain two stellar-population parameters on average with age uncertainties less than 3.89 Gyr and metallicity uncertainties less than 0.34 dex for typical uncertainties in colours. Some other colour pairs, such as [(R-K), (u-R)], [(I-K), (u-R)], [(R-K), (u-r)] and [(i-J), (u-R)], can possibly be used for constraining the two parameters, too. As a whole, our results suggest that colours relating to both UBVRIJHK and ugriz magnitudes are much better than either UBVRIJHK colours or ugriz colours for breaking the well-known degeneracy. The results also show that the stellar ages and metallicities of galaxies observed by the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) and the Two-Micron All-Sky Survey (2MASS) can be estimated via photometry data. It is also shown that the colours can be used in conjunction with line indices to measure stellar-population parameters. 
0704.01203	On the Fine Structure of QCD Confining String	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:P.Yu.Boyko, F.V.Gubarev, S.M.Morozov	 Abstract: This paper had been withdrawn because the prime reported effect had not been confirmed in further investigations (see arXiv:0812.4488 [hep-lat]). 
0704.01204	The effect of supernova asymmetry on coalescence rates of binary neutron  stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K.A. Postnov, A.G. Kuranov (Sternberg Astronomical Institute, Moscow)	 Abstract: We study the effect of the kick velocity -- neutron star spin alignment observed in young radio pulsars on the coalescence rate of binary neutron stars. The effect is shown to be especially strong for large kick amplitudes and tight alignments, reducing the galactic rate of binary neutron star coalescences up to an order of magnitude with respect to the rates calculated for random kicks. The spin-kick correlation also leads to much narrower NS spin-orbit misalignments compared to random kicks. 
0704.01205	Electronic structure of the zigzag spin-chain compound In$_2$VO$_5$	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Udo Schwingenschlögl	 Abstract: Band structure calculations within the local spin-density approximation are presented in order to investigate the electronic and magnetic properties of the zigzag spin-chain compound In$_2$VO$_5$. The essential structural feature of the system is a double chain of VO$_6$-octahedra, which leads to competing intrachain and interchain magnetic couplings. Frustration of the spin-chains is expected for the proposed antiferromagnetic ordering at low temperatures. However, the band calculations show that the experimental room temperature crystal structure is incompatible with antiferromagnetism. Both the intrachain and interchain coupling is found to be ferromagnetic. 
0704.01206	Elasticity with Arbitrarily Shaped Inhomogeneity	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Joachim Mathiesen, Itamar Procaccia, Ido Regev	 Abstract: A classical problem in elasticity theory involves an inhomogeneity embedded in a material of given stress and shear moduli. The inhomogeneity is a region of arbitrary shape whose stress and shear moduli differ from those of the surrounding medium. In this paper we present a new, semi-analytic method for finding the stress tensor for an infinite plate with such an inhomogeneity. The solution involves two conformal maps, one from the inside and the second from the outside of the unit circle to the inside, and respectively outside, of the inhomogeneity. The method provides a solution by matching the conformal maps on the boundary between the inhomogeneity and the surrounding material. This matching converges well only for relatively mild distortions of the unit circle due to reasons which will be discussed in the article. We provide a comparison of the present result to known previous results. 
0704.01207	Asymptotic profiles of solutions to viscous Hamilton-Jacobi equations	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Said Benachour (IECN), Grzegorz Karch, Philippe Laurençot (MIP)	 Abstract: The large time behavior of solutions to Cauchy problem for viscous Hamilton-Jacobi equation is classified. The large time asymptotics are given by very singular self-similar solutions on one hand and by self-similar viscosity solutions on the other hand 
0704.01208	Asymptotic profiles of solutions to convection-diffusion equations	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Said Benachour (IECN), Grzegorz Karch, Philippe Laurençot (MIP)	 Abstract: The large time behavior of zero mass solutions to the Cauchy problem for a convection-diffusion equation. We provide conditions on the size and shape of the initial datum such that the large time asymptotics of solutions is given either by the derivative of the Guass-Weierstrass kernel or by a self-similar solution or by a hyperbolic N-wave 
0704.01209	Characterization of fragment emission in ^{20}Ne (7 - 10 MeV/nucleon) +  ^{12}C reactions	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:Aparajita Dey, C. Bhattacharya, S. Bhattacharya, S. Kundu, K. Banerjee, S. Mukhopadhyay, D. Gupta, T. Bhattacharjee, S. R. Banerjee, S. Bhattacharyya, T. K. Rana, S. K. Basu, R. Saha, K. Krishan, A. Mukherjee, D. Bandopadhyay, C. Beck	 Abstract: The inclusive energy distributions of the complex fragments (3 $\leq$ Z $\leq$ 7) emitted from the bombardment of ^{12}C by ^{20}Ne beams with incident energies between 145 and 200 MeV have been measured in the angular range 10$^{o} \leq \theta_{lab} \leq$ 50^{o}. Damped fragment yields in all the cases have been found to be the characteristic of emission from fully energy equilibrated composites. The binary fragment yields are compared with the standard statistical model predictions. Enhanced yields of entrance channel fragments (5 $\leq$ Z $\leq$ 7) indicate the survival of orbiting-like process in ^{20}Ne + ^{12}C system at these energies. 
0704.01210	The dynamics of Jupiter and Saturn in the gaseous proto-planetary disk	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Morbidelli Alessandro (OCA), Aurelien Crida (OCA)	 Abstract: We study the possibility that the mutual interactions between Jupiter and Saturn prevented Type II migration from driving these planets much closer to the Sun. Our work extends previous results by Masset and Snellgrove (2001), by exploring a wider set of initial conditions and disk parameters, and by using a new hydrodynamical code that properly describes for the global viscous evolution of the disk. Initially both planets migrate towards the Sun, and Saturn's migration tends to be faster. As a consequence, they eventually end up locked in a mean motion resonance. If this happens in the 2:3 resonance, the resonant motion is particularly stable, and the gaps opened by the planets in the disk may overlap. This causes a drastic change in the torque balance for the two planets, which substantially slows down the planets' inward migration. If the gap overlap is substantial, planet migration may even be stopped or reversed. As the widths of the gaps depend on disk viscosity and scale height, this mechanism is particularly efficient in low viscosity, cool disks. We discuss the compatibility of our results with the initial conditions adopted in Tsiganis et al. (2005) and Gomes et al. (2005) to explain the current orbital architecture of the giant planets and the origin of the Late Heavy Bombardment of the Moon. 
0704.01211	Kinetic Theory for Binary Granular Mixtures at Low-Density	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Vicente Garzo	 Abstract: Many features of granular media can be modelled as a fluid of hard spheres with {\em inelastic} collisions. Under rapid flow conditions, the macroscopic behavior of grains can be described through hydrodynamic equations. At low-density, a fundamental basis for the derivation of the hydrodynamic equations and explicit expressions for the transport coefficients appearing in them is provided by the Boltzmann kinetic theory conveniently modified to account for inelastic binary collisions. The goal of this chapter is to give an overview of the recent advances made for binary granular gases by using kinetic theory tools. Some of the results presented here cover aspects such as transport properties, energy nonequipartition, instabilities, segregation or mixing, non-Newtonian behavior, .... In addition, comparison of the analytical results with those obtained from Monte Carlo and molecular dynamics simulations is also carried out, showing the reliability of kinetic theory to describe granular flows even for strong dissipation. 
0704.01212	Optical carrier wave shocking: detection and dispersion	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:P. Kinsler, S.B.P. Radnor, J.C.A. Tyrrell, G.H.C. New	 Abstract: Carrier wave shocking is studied using the Pseudo-Spectral Spatial Domain (PSSD) technique. We describe the shock detection diagnostics necessary for this numerical study, and verify them against theoretical shocking predictions for the dispersionless case. These predictions show Carrier Envelope Phase (CEP) and pulse bandwidth sensitivity in the single-cycle regime. The flexible dispersion management offered by PSSD enables us to independently control the linear and nonlinear dispersion. Customized dispersion profiles allow us to analyze the development of both carrier self-steepening and shocks. The results exhibit a marked asymmetry between normal and anomalous dispersion, both in the limits of the shocking regime and in the (near) shocked pulse waveforms. Combining these insights, we offer some suggestions on how carrier shocking (or at least extreme self-steepening) might be realised experimentally. 
0704.01213	Spin-polarized transport through weakly coupled double quantum dots in  the Coulomb-blockade regime	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:I. Weymann	 Abstract: We analyze cotunneling transport through two quantum dots in series weakly coupled to external ferromagnetic leads. In the Coulomb blockade regime the electric current flows due to third-order tunneling, while the second-order single-barrier processes have indirect impact on the current by changing the occupation probabilities of the double dot system. We predict a zero-bias maximum in the differential conductance, whose magnitude is conditioned by the value of the inter-dot Coulomb interaction. This maximum is present in both magnetic configurations of the system and results from asymmetry in cotunneling through different virtual states. Furthermore, we show that tunnel magnetoresistance exhibits a distinctively different behavior depending on temperature, being rather independent of the value of inter-dot correlation. Moreover, we find negative TMR in some range of the bias voltage. 
0704.01214	Possible origin of Larson's lows	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A.W. Zaharow	 Abstract: It was found that approximately constant column densities of giant molecular clouds (Larson's low) can be explained as cloud existence condition in external (galactic) gravitational field. This condition can be also applied to objects (clumps and cores) embedded into the cloud and its gravitational field. Derived existence condition do not rely on any internal dynamic of a cloud and embedded objects. 
0704.01215	Double Neutron Stars: Evidence For Two Different Neutron-Star Formation  Mechanisms	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:E.P.J. van den Heuvel (University of Amsterdam, University of California)	 Abstract: Six of the eight double neutron stars known in the Galactic disk have low orbital eccentricities (< 0.27) indicating that their second-born neutron stars received only very small velocity kicks at birth. This is similar to the case of the B-emission X-ray binaries, where a sizable fraction of the neutron stars received hardly any velocity kick at birth (Pfahl et al. 2002). The masses of the second-born neutron stars in five of the six low-eccentricity double neutron stars are remarkably low (between 1.18 and 1.30 Msun). It is argued that these low-mass, low-kick neutron stars were formed by the electron-capture collapse of the degenerate O-Ne-Mg cores of helium stars less massive than about 3.5 Msun, whereas the higher-mass, higher kick-velocity neutron stars were formed by the collapses of the iron cores of higher initial mass. The absence of low-velocity single young radio pulsars (Hobbs et al. 2005) is consistent with the model proposed by Podsiadlowski et al. (2004), in which the electron-capture collapse of degenerate O-Ne-Mg cores can only occur in binary systems, and not in single stars. 
0704.01216	Large Scale Self-Similar Skeletal Structure of the Universe	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Valentin A. Rantsev-Kartinov	 Abstract: An analysis of the redshift maps of galaxies and quasars has revealed large-scale self-similar skeletal structures of the Universe of the same topology which had been found earlier in a wide range of phenomena, spatial scales and environments. The "cartwheel" type of structure with diameter ~ 1.5 10^27 cm is discovered in this analysis by means of the method of multi-level dynamical contrasting. Similar skeletal structures in size up to 1.5 10^28 cm are found also in the redshift maps of quasars. 
0704.01217	The Manin conjecture in dimension 2	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:T.D. Browning	 Abstract: These lecture notes describe the current state of affairs for Manin's conjecture in the context of del Pezzo surfaces. 
0704.01218	The impact of radio feedback from active galactic nuclei in cosmological  simulations: Formation of disk galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Takashi Okamoto (1), Rodrigo S. Nemmen (2), Richard G. Bower (1) ((1) Durham University, (2) UFRGS)	 Abstract: In this paper, we present a new implementation of feedback due to active galactic nuclei (AGN) in cosmological simulations of galaxy formation. We assume that a fraction of jet energy, which is generated by an AGN, is transferred to the surrounding gas as thermal energy. Combining a theoretical model of mass accretion onto black holes with a multiphase description of star-forming gas, we self-consistently follow evolution of both galaxies and their central black holes. The novelty in our model is that we consider two distinct accretion modes: standard radiatively efficient thin accretion disks and radiatively inefficient accretion flows which we will generically refer to as RIAFs; motivated by theoretical models for jet production in accretion disks, we assume that only the RIAF is responsible for the AGN feedback. We find that, after an initial episode of bursting star formation, the accretion rate onto the central black hole drops so that the accretion disk switches to a RIAF structure. At this point, the feedback from the AGN becomes efficient and slightly suppresses star formation in the galactic disk and almost completely halts star formation in the bulge. As a result, the nucleus becomes a stochastically fuelled low-luminosity AGN (Seyfert galaxy) with recurrent short-lived episodes of activity after the star bursts. Our model predicts several properties of the low-luminosity AGN including the bolometric luminosity, jet powers, the effect on kpc-scale of the radio jet and the AGN lifetime, which are in broad agreement with observations of Seyfert galaxies and their radio activity. We also find that the mass ratios between the central black hole and the the host spheroid at z = 0 are ~10^{-3} regardless of the strength of either supernova feedback or AGN feedback. (abridged) 
0704.01219	Y-formalism and $b$ ghost in the Non-minimal Pure Spinor Formalism of  Superstrings	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Ichiro Oda, Mario Tonin	 Abstract: We present the Y-formalism for the non-minimal pure spinor quantization of superstrings. In the framework of this formalism we compute, at the quantum level, the explicit form of the compound operators involved in the construction of the $b$ ghost, their normal-ordering contributions and the relevant relations among them. We use these results to construct the quantum-mechanical $b$ ghost in the non-minimal pure spinor formalism. Moreover we show that this non-minimal $b$ ghost is cohomologically equivalent to the non-covariant $b$ ghost. 
0704.01220	A multi-transition molecular line study of candidate massive young  stellar objects associated with methanol masers	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Szymczak, A. Bartkiewicz, A.M.S. Richards	 Abstract: We characterize the molecular environment of candidate massive young stellar objects (MYSOs) signposted by methanol masers. Single pixel observations of 10 transitions of HCO^+, CO and CS isotopomers were carried out, using the IRAM 30m telescope. We studied a sample of 28 targets for which the 6.7GHz maser emission positions are known with a sub-arcsecond accuracy. The systemic velocity inferred from the optically thin lines agrees within 3km/s with the central velocity of the maser emission for most of the sources. About 64% of the sources show line wings in one or more transitions of CO, HCO^+ and CS species, indicating the presence of molecular outflows. Comparison of the widths of line wings and methanol maser emission suggests that the 6.7GHz maser line traces the environment of MYSO of various kinematic regimes. Therefore conditions conducive for the methanol maser can exist in the inner parts of molecular clouds or circumstellar discs as well as in the outer parts associated with molecular outflows. Calculations of the physical conditions based on the CO and HCO^+ lines and the CS line intensity ratios refine the input parameters for maser models. 
0704.01221	Dynamics of the Tippe Top via Routhian Reduction	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:M. C. Ciocci, B. Langerock	 Abstract: We consider a tippe top modeled as an eccentric sphere, spinning on a horizontal table and subject to a sliding friction. Ignoring translational effects, we show that the system is reducible using a Routhian reduction technique. The reduced system is a two dimensional system of second order differential equations, that allows an elegant and compact way to retrieve the classification of tippe tops in six groups as proposed in [1] according to the existence and stability type of the steady states. 
0704.01222	Plasmaneutrino spectrum	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Odrzywolek	 Abstract: Spectrum of the neutrinos produced in the massive photon and longitudal plasmon decay process has been computed with four levels of approximation for the dispersion relations. Some analytical formulae in limiting cases are derived. Interesting conclusions related to previous calculations of the energy loss in stars are presented. High energy tail of the neutrino spectrum is shown to be proportional to exp(-E/kT), where E is the neutrino energy and kT is the temperature of the plasma. 
0704.01223	Quadratic BSDEs with random terminal time and elliptic PDEs in infinite  dimension	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Philippe Briand, Fulvia Confortola	 Abstract: In this paper we study one dimensional backward stochastic differential equations (BSDEs) with random terminal time not necessarily bounded or finite when the generator F(t,Y,Z) has a quadratic growth in Z. We provide existence and uniqueness of a bounded solution of such BSDEs and, in the case of infinite horizon, regular dependence on parameters. The obtained results are then applied to prove existence and uniqueness of a mild solution to elliptic partial differential equations in Hilbert spaces. 
0704.01224	Non-minimal Wu-Yang wormhole	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Alexander B. Balakin, Sergey V. Sushkov, Alexei E. Zayats	 Abstract: We discuss exact solutions of three-parameter non-minimal Einstein-Yang-Mills model, which describe the wormholes of a new type. These wormholes are considered to be supported by SU(2)-symmetric Yang-Mills field, non-minimally coupled to gravity, the Wu-Yang ansatz for the gauge field being used. We distinguish between regular solutions, describing traversable non-minimal Wu-Yang wormholes, and black wormholes possessing one or two event horizons. The relation between the asymptotic mass of the regular traversable Wu-Yang wormhole and its throat radius is analysed. 
0704.01225	Patterns of dominant flows in the world trade web	General Finance (q-fin.GN)	Authors:M. Angeles Serrano, Marian Boguna, Alessandro Vespignani	 Abstract: The large-scale organization of the world economies is exhibiting increasingly levels of local heterogeneity and global interdependency. Understanding the relation between local and global features calls for analytical tools able to uncover the global emerging organization of the international trade network. Here we analyze the world network of bilateral trade imbalances and characterize its overall flux organization, unraveling local and global high-flux pathways that define the backbone of the trade system. We develop a general procedure capable to progressively filter out in a consistent and quantitative way the dominant trade channels. This procedure is completely general and can be applied to any weighted network to detect the underlying structure of transport flows. The trade fluxes properties of the world trade web determines a ranking of trade partnerships that highlights global interdependencies, providing information not accessible by simple local analysis. The present work provides new quantitative tools for a dynamical approach to the propagation of economic crises. 
0704.01226	Hydrogen 2p--2s transition: signals from the epochs of recombination and  reionization	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Shiv. K. Sethi, Ravi Subrahmanyan, D. Anish Roshi	 Abstract: We propose a method to study the epoch of reionization based on the possible observation of 2p--2s fine structure lines from the neutral hydrogen outside the cosmological H {\sc ii} regions enveloping QSOs and other ionizing sources in the reionization era. We show that for parameters typical of luminous sources observed at $z \simeq 6.3$ the strength of this signal, which is proportional to the H {\sc i} fraction, has a brightness temperature $\simeq 20 \mu K$ for a fully neutral medium. The fine structure line from this redshift is observable at $\nu \simeq 1 \rm GHz$ and we discuss prospects for the detection with several operational and future radio telescopes. We also compute the characteristics of this signal from the epoch of recombination: the peak brightness is expected to be $\simeq 100 \mu K$; this signal appears in the frequency range 5-10 MHz. The signal from the recombination era is nearly impossible to detect owing to the extreme brightness of the Galactic emission at these frequencies. 
0704.01227	Superconductor strip in a closed magnetic environment: exact analytic  representation of the critical state	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Y.A. Genenko, H. Rauh	 Abstract: An exact analytic representation of the critical state of a current-carrying type-II superconductor strip located inside a cylindrical magnetic cavity of high permeability is derived. The obtained results show that, when the cavity radius is small, penetration of magnetic flux fronts is strongly reduced as compared to the situation in an isolated strip. From our generic representation it is possible to establish current profiles in closed cavities of various other geometries too by means of conformal mapping of the basic configuration addressed. 
0704.01228	Near- and Far-Infrared Counterparts of Millimeter Dust Cores in the Vela  Molecular Ridge Cloud D	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. De Luca, T. Giannini, D. Lorenzetti, F. Massi, D. Elia, B. Nisini	 Abstract: The aim of this paper is to identify the young protostellar counterparts associated to dust millimeter cores of the Vela Molecular Ridge Cloud D through new IR observations (H_2 narrow-band at 2.12 micron and N broad band at 10.4 micron) along with an investigation performed on the existing IR catalogues. The association of mm continuum emission with infrared sources from catalogues (IRAS, MSX, 2MASS), JHK data from the literature and new observations, has been established according to spatial coincidence, infrared colours and spectral energy distributions. Only 7 out of 29 resolved mm cores (and 16 out of the 26 unresolved ones) do not exhibit signposts of star formation activity. The other ones are clearly associated with: far-IR sources, H_2 jets or near-IR objects showing a high intrinsic colour excess. The distribution of the spectral indices pertaining to the associated sources is peaked at values typical of Class I objects, while three objects are signalled as candidates Class 0 sources. We remark the high detection rate (30%) of H_2 jets driven by sources located inside the mm-cores. They appear not driven by the most luminous objects in the field, but rather by less luminous objects in young clusters, testifying the co-existence of both low- and intermediate-mass star formation. The presented results reliably describe the young population of VMR-D. However, the statistical evaluation of activity vs inactivity of the investigated cores, even in good agreement with results found for other star forming regions, seems to reflect the limiting sensitivity of the available facilities rather than any property intrinsic to the mm-condensations. 
0704.01229	High-precision covariant one-boson-exchange potentials for np scattering  below 350 MeV	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Franz Gross, Alfred Stadler	 Abstract: All realistic potential models for the two-nucleon interaction are to some extent based on boson exchange. However, in order to achieve an essentially perfect fit to the scattering data, characterized by a chi2/Ndata ~ 1, previous potentials have abandoned a pure one boson-exchange mechanism (OBE). Using a covariant theory, we have found a OBE potential that fits the 2006 world np data below 350 MeV with a chi2/Ndata = 1.06 for 3788 data. Our potential has fewer adjustable parameters than previous high-precision potentials, and also reproduces the experimental triton binding energy without introducing additional irreducible three-nucleon forces. 
0704.01230	Pseudodifferential operators and weighted normed symbol spaces	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Johannes Sjoestrand	 Abstract: In this work we study some general classes of pseudodifferential operators whose symbols are defined in terms of phase space estimates. 
0704.01231	Entwining Structures in Monoidal Catrgories	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Bachuki Mesablishvili	 Abstract: Interpreting entwining structures as special instances of J. Beck's distributive law, the concept of entwining module can be generalized for the setting of arbitrary monoidal category. In this paper, we use the distributive law formalism to extend in this setting basic properties of entwining modules. 
0704.01232	CP Violation and Arrows of Time Evolution of a Neutral $K$ or $B$ Meson  from an Incoherent to a Coherent State	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Ch. Berger, L. Sehgal	 Abstract: We study the evolution of a neutral $K$ meson prepared as an incoherent equal mixture of $K^0$ and $\bar{K^0}$. Denoting the density matrix by $\rho(t) = {1/2} N(t) [\1 + \vec{\zeta}(t) \cdot \vec{\sigma} ] $, the norm of the state $N(t)$ is found to decrease monotonically from one to zero, while the magnitude of the Stokes vector $|\vec{\zeta}(t)|$ increases monotonically from zero to one. This property qualifies these observables as arrows of time. Requiring monotonic behaviour of $N(t)$ for arbitrary values of $\gamma_L, \gamma_S$ and $\Delta m$ yields a bound on the CP-violating overlap $\delta = \braket{K_L}{K_S}$, which is similar to, but weaker than, the known unitarity bound. A similar requirement on $|\vec{\zeta}(t)|$ yields a new bound, $\delta^2 < {1/2} (\frac{\Delta \gamma}{\Delta m}) \sinh (\frac{3\pi}{4} \frac{\Delta \gamma}{\Delta m})$ which is particularly effective in limiting the CP-violating overlap in the $B^0$-$\bar{B^0}$ system. We obtain the Stokes parameter $\zeta_3(t)$ which shows how the average strangeness of the beam evolves from zero to $\delta$. The evolution of the Stokes vector from $|\vec{\zeta}| = 0$ to $|\vec{\zeta}| = 1$ has a resemblance to an order parameter of a system undergoing spontaneous symmetry breaking. 
0704.01233	Residual entropy in a model for the unfolding of single polymer chains	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Erik Van der Straeten, Jan Naudts	 Abstract: We study the unfolding of a single polymer chain due to an external force. We use a simplified model which allows to perform all calculations in closed form without assuming a Boltzmann-Gibbs form for the equilibrium distribution. Temperature is then defined by calculating the Legendre transform of the entropy under certain constraints. The application of the model is limited to flexible polymers. It exhibits a gradual transition from compact globule to rod. The boundary line between these two phases shows reentrant behavior. This behavior is explained by the presence of residual entropy. 
0704.01234	Generalization of Einstein-Lovelock theory to higher order dilaton  gravity	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:D. Konikowska, M. Olechowski	 Abstract: A higher order theory of dilaton gravity is constructed as a generalization of the Einstein-Lovelock theory of pure gravity. Its Lagrangian contains terms with higher powers of the Riemann tensor and of the first two derivatives of the dilaton. Nevertheless, the resulting equations of motion are quasi-linear in the second derivatives of the metric and of the dilaton. This property is crucial for the existence of brane solutions in the thin wall limit. At each order in derivatives the contribution to the Lagrangian is unique up to an overall normalization. Relations between symmetries of this theory and the O(d,d) symmetry of the string-inspired models are discussed. 
0704.01235	Fluctuations of the partial filling factors in competitive RSA from  binary mixtures	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Arsen V. Subashiev, Serge Luryi	 Abstract: Competitive random sequential adsorption on a line from a binary mix of incident particles is studied using both an analytic recursive approach and Monte Carlo simulations. We find a strong correlation between the small and the large particle distributions so that while both partial contributions to the fill factor fluctuate widely, the variance of the total fill factor remains relatively small. The variances of partial contributions themselves are quite different between the smaller and the larger particles, with the larger particle distribution being more correlated. The disparity in fluctuations of partial fill factors increases with the particle size ratio. The additional variance in the partial contribution of smaller particle originates from the fluctuations in the size of gaps between larger particles. We discuss the implications of our results to semiconductor high-energy gamma detectors where the detector energy resolution is controlled by correlations in the cascade energy branching process. 
0704.01236	Sur les représentations du groupe fondamental d'une variété  privée d'un diviseur à croisements normaux simples	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Niels Borne	 Abstract: Given a projective variety X over an algebraically closed field of characteristic zero, we show that finite parabolic bundles along a fixed simple normal crossings divisor D are in one to one correspondence with representations of the \'etale fundamental group of X-D. 
0704.01237	Infrared High-Resolution Spectroscopy of Post-AGB Circumstellar Disks.  I. HR 4049 - The Winnowing Flow Observed?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Kenneth H. Hinkle (1), Sean D. Brittain (2), David L. Lambert (3) ((1) NOAO, (2) Clemson University, (3) The W.J. McDonald Observatory)	 Abstract: High-resolution infrared spectroscopy in the 2.3-4.6 micron region is reported for the peculiar A supergiant, single-lined spectroscopic binary HR 4049. Lines from the CO fundamental and first overtone, OH fundamental, and several H2O vibration-rotation transitions have been observed in the near-infrared spectrum. The spectrum of HR 4049 appears principally in emission through the 3 and 4.6 micron region and in absorption in the 2 micron region. The 4.6 micron spectrum shows a rich 'forest' of emission lines. All the spectral lines observed in the 2.3-4.6 micron spectrum are shown to be circumbinary in origin. The presence of OH and H2O lines confirm the oxygen-rich nature of the circumbinary gas which is in contrast to the previously detected carbon-rich material. The emission and absorption line profiles show that the circumbinary gas is located in a thin, rotating layer near the dust disk. The properties of the dust and gas circumbinary disk and the spectroscopic orbit yield masses for the individual stars, M_AI~0.58 Msolar and M_MV~0.34 Msolar. Gas in the disk also has an outward flow with a velocity of $\gtrsim$ 1 km/s. The severe depletion of refractory elements but near-solar abundances of volatile elements observed in HR 4049 results from abundance winnowing. The separation of the volatiles from the grains in the disk and the subsequent accretion by the star are discussed. Contrary to prior reports, the HR 4049 carbon and oxygen isotopic abundances are typical AGB values: 12C/13C=6^{+9}_{-4} and 16O/17O>200. 
0704.01238	Tannakian Categories attached to abelian Varieties	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Rainer Weissauer	 Abstract: Starting from certain perverse sheaves on an abelian variety, including the intersection cohomology sheaves of curves and smooth ample divisors, we construct a semisimple super-Tannakian category. 
0704.01239	On the Entropy Function and the Attractor Mechanism for Spherically  Symmetric Extremal Black Holes	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Rong-Gen Cai, Li-Ming Cao	 Abstract: In this paper we elaborate on the relation between the entropy formula of Wald and the "entropy function" method proposed by A. Sen. For spherically symmetric extremal black holes, it is shown that the expression of extremal black hole entropy given by A. Sen can be derived from the general entropy definition of Wald, without help of the treatment of rescaling the AdS_2 part of near horizon geometry of extremal black holes. In our procedure, we only require that the surface gravity approaches to zero, and it is easy to understand the Legendre transformation of f, the integration of Lagrangian density on the horizon, with respect to the electric charges. Since the Noether charge form can be defined in an "off-shell" form, we define a corresponding entropy function, with which one can discuss the attractor mechanism for extremal black holes with scalar fields. 
0704.01240	Dynamical layer decoupling in a stripe-ordered, high T_c superconductor	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Erez Berg, Eduardo Fradkin, Eun-Ah Kim, Steven A. Kivelson, Vadim Oganesyan, John Tranquada, Shoucheng Zhang	 Abstract: In the stripe-ordered state of a strongly-correlated two-dimensional electronic system, under a set of special circumstances, the superconducting condensate, like the magnetic order, can occur at a non-zero wave-vector corresponding to a spatial period double that of the charge order. In this case, the Josephson coupling between near neighbor planes, especially in a crystal with the special structure of La_{2-x}Ba_xCuO_4, vanishes identically. We propose that this is the underlying cause of the dynamical decoupling of the layers recently observed in transport measurements at x=1/8. 
0704.01241	Cooling and heating by adiabatic magnetization in the  Ni$_{50}$Mn$_{34}$In$_{16}$ magnetic shape memory alloy	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Xavier Moya, Lluis Manosa, Antoni Planes, Seda Aksoy, Mehmet Acet, Eberhard F. Wassermann, Thorsten Krenke	 Abstract: We report on measurements of the adiabatic temperature change in the inverse magnetocaloric Ni$_{50}$Mn$_{34}$In$_{16}$ alloy. It is shown that this alloy heats up with the application of a magnetic field around the Curie point due to the conventional magnetocaloric effect. In contrast, the inverse magnetocaloric effect associated with the martensitic transition results in the unusual decrease of temperature by adiabatic magnetization. We also provide magnetization and specific heat data which enable to compare the measured temperature changes to the values indirectly computed from thermodynamic relationships. Good agreement is obtained for the conventional effect at the second-order paramagnetic-ferromagnetic phase transition. However, at the first order structural transition the measured values at high fields are lower than the computed ones. Irreversible thermodynamics arguments are given to show that such a discrepancy is due to the irreversibility of the first-order martensitic transition. 
0704.01242	Giant Fluctuations of Coulomb Drag in a Bilayer System	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:A. S. Price, A. K. Savchenko, B. N. Narozhny, G. Allison, D. A. Ritchie	 Abstract: We have observed reproducible fluctuations of the Coulomb drag, both as a function of magnetic field and electron concentration, which are a manifestation of quantum interference of electrons in the layers. At low temperatures the fluctuations exceed the average drag, giving rise to random changes of the sign of the drag. The fluctuations are found to be much larger than previously expected, and we propose a model which explains their enhancement by considering fluctuations of local electron properties. 
0704.01243	Magnetic superelasticity and inverse magnetocaloric effect in Ni-Mn-In	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Thorsten Krenke, Eyup Duman, Mehmet Acet, Eberhard F. Wassermann, Xavier Moya, Lluis Manosa, Antoni Planes, Emmanuelle Suard, Bachir Ouladdiaf	 Abstract: Applying a magnetic field to a ferromagnetic Ni$_{50}$Mn$_{34}$In$_{16}$ alloy in the martensitic state induces a structural phase transition to the austenitic state. This is accompanied by a strain which recovers on removing the magnetic field giving the system a magnetically superelastic character. A further property of this alloy is that it also shows the inverse magnetocaloric effect. The magnetic superelasticity and the inverse magnetocaloric effect in Ni-Mn-In and their association with the first order structural transition is studied by magnetization, strain, and neutron diffraction studies under magnetic field. 
0704.01244	SN 2003du: 480 days in the Life of a Normal Type Ia Supernova	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:V. Stanishev, A. Goobar, S. Benetti, R. Kotak, G. Pignata, H. Navasardyan, P. Mazzali, R. Amanullah, G. Garavini, S. Nobili, Y. Qiu, N. Elias-Rosa, P. Ruiz-Lapuente, J. Mendez, P. Meikle, F. Patat, A. Pastorello, G. Altavilla, M. Gustafsson, A. Harutyunyan, T. Iijima, P. Jakobsson, M.V. Kichizhieva, P. Lundqvist, S. Mattila, J. Melinder, E.P. Pavlenko, N.N. Pavlyuk, J. Sollerman, D.Yu. Tsvetkov, M. Turatto, W. Hillebrandt	 Abstract: An extensive set of optical and NIR photometry and low-resolution spectra the Type Ia supernova (SN Ia) 2003du was obtained using a number of facilities. The observations started 13 days before B-band maximum light and continued for 480 days with exceptionally good time sampling. The optical photometry was calibrated through the S-correction technique. The UBVRIJHK light curves and the color indices of SN 2003du closely resemble those of normal SNe Ia. SN 2003du reached a B-band maximum of 13.49 (+/-0.02) mag on JD2452766.38 (+/-0.5). We derive a B-band stretch parameter of 0.988 (+/-0.003), which corresponds to dM15=1.02 (+/-0.05), indicative of a SN Ia of standard luminosity. The reddening in the host galaxy was estimated by three methods, and was consistently found to be negligible. We estimate a distance modulus of 32.79 (+/-0.15) mag to the host galaxy, UGC 9391. The peak UVOIR bolometric luminosity of 1.35(+/-0.20) 10^43 erg/s and Arnett's rule implies that M(Ni56)=0.68 (+/-0.14)M_sun of Ni56 was synthesized during the explosion. Modeling of the UVOIR bolometric light curve also indicates M(Ni56) in the range 0.6-0.8 M_sun. The spectral evolution of SN 2003du at both optical and NIR wavelengths also closely resembles normal SNe Ia. In particular, the Si II ratio at maximum R(Si II)=0.22 (+/-0.02) and the time evolution of the blueshift velocities of the absorption line minima are typical. The pre-maximum spectra of SN 2003du showed conspicuous high-velocity features in the Ca II H&K doublet and infrared triplet, and possibly in Si II 6355, lines. We compare the time evolution of the profiles of these lines with other well-observed SNe Ia and we suggest that the peculiar pre-maximum evolution of Si II 6355 line in many SNe Ia is due to the presence of two blended absorption components. 
0704.01245	Outflow and Infall in a Sample of Massive Star Forming Regions	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P.D. Klaassen, C.D. Wilson	 Abstract: We present single pointing observations of SiO, HCO$^+$ and H$^{13}$CO$^+$ from the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope towards 23 massive star forming regions previously known to contain molecular outflows and ultracompact HII regions. We detected SiO towards 14 sources and suggest that the non-detections in the other nine sources could be due to those outflows being older and without ongoing shocks to replenish the SiO. We serendipitously detected SO$_2$ towards 17 sources in the same tuning as HCO$^+$. We detected HCO$^+$ towards all sources, and suggest that it is tracing infall in nine cases. For seven infall candidates, we estimate mass infall rates between 1$\times10^{-2}$ and 2$\times10^{-5}$ M$_{\odot}$ yr$^{-1}$. Seven sources show both SiO detections (young outflows) and HCO$^+$ infall signatures. We also find that the abundance of H$^{13}$CO$^+$ tends to increase along with the abundance of SiO in sources for which we could determine abundances. We discuss these results with respect to current theories of massive star formation via accretion. From this survey, we suggest that perhaps both models of ionized accretion and halted accretion may be important in describing the evolution of a massive protostar (or protostars) beyond the formation of an HII region. 
0704.01246	Invariants of Welded Virtual Knots Via Crossed Module Invariants of  Knotted Surfaces	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Louis H. Kauffman, João Faria Martins	 Abstract: We define an invariant of welded virtual knots from each finite crossed module by considering crossed module invariants of ribbon knotted surfaces which are naturally associated with them. We elucidate that the invariants obtained are non trivial by calculating explicit examples. We define welded virtual graphs and consider invariants of them defined in a similar way. 
0704.01247	A Rational Approach to Resonance Saturation in large-Nc QCD	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:P. Masjuan, S. Peris	 Abstract: We point out that resonance saturation in QCD can be understood in the large-Nc limit from the mathematical theory of Pade Approximants to meromorphic functions. These approximants are rational functions which encompass any saturation with a finite number of resonances as a particular example, explaining several results which have appeared in the literature. We review the main properties of Pade Approximants with the help of a toy model for the <VV-AA> two-point correlator, paying particular attention to the relationship among the Chiral Expansion, the Operator Product Expansion and the resonance spectrum. In passing, we also comment on an old proposal made by Migdal in 1977 which has recently attracted much attention in the context of AdS/QCD models. Finally, we apply the simplest Pade Approximant to the <VV-AA> correlator in the real case of QCD. The general conclusion is that a rational approximant may reliably describe a Green's function in the Euclidean, but the same is not true in the Minkowski regime due to the appearance of unphysical poles and/or residues. 
0704.01248	Unification and Fermion Mass Structure	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Graham Ross, Mario Serna	 Abstract: Grand Unified Theories predict relationships between the GUT-scale quark and lepton masses. Using new data in the context of the MSSM, we update the values and uncertainties of the masses and mixing angles for the three generations at the GUT scale. We also update fits to hierarchical patterns in the GUT-scale Yukawa matrices. The new data shows not all the classic GUT-scale mass relationships remain in quantitative agreement at small to moderate tan beta. However, at large tan beta, these discrepancies can be eliminated by finite, tan beta-enhanced, radiative, threshold corrections if the gluino mass has the opposite sign to the wino mass. 
0704.01249	Cluster tilting for one-dimensional hypersurface singularities	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Igor Burban, Osamu Iyama, Bernhard Keller, Idun Reiten	 Abstract: In this article we study Cohen-Macaulay modules over one-dimensional hypersurface singularities and the relationship with the representation theory of associative algebras using methods of cluster tilting theory. We give a criterion for existence of cluster tilting objects and their complete description by homological methods, using higher almost split sequences and results from birational geometry. We obtain a large class of 2-CY tilted algebras which are finite dimensional symmetric and satisfy $\tau^2=\id$. In particular, we compute 2-CY tilted algebras for simple and minimally elliptic curve singularities. 
0704.01250	Gemini Mid-IR Polarimetry of NGC1068: Polarized Structures Around the  Nucleus	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C. Packham, S. Young, R. S. Fisher, K. Volk, R. Mason, J. H. Hough, P. F. Roche, M. Elitzur, J. Radomski, E. Perlman	 Abstract: We present diffraction limited, 10um imaging polarimetry data for the central regions of the archetypal Seyfert AGN, NGC1068. The position angle of polarization is consistent with three dominant polarizing mechanisms. We identify three distinct regions of polarization: (a) north of the nucleus, arising from aligned dust in the NLR, (b) south, east and west of the nucleus, consistent with dust being channeled toward the central engine and (c) a central minimum of polarization consistent with a compact (<22pc) torus. These observations provide continuity between the geometrically and optically thick torus and the host galaxy's nuclear environments. These images represent the first published mid-IR polarimetry from an 8-m class telescope and illustrate the potential of such observations. 
0704.01251	Coupling between magnetic ordering and structural instabilities in  perovskite biferroics: A first-principles study	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Nirat Ray, Umesh V. Waghmare	 Abstract: We use first-principles density functional theory-based calculations to investigate structural instabilities in the high symmetry cubic perovskite structure of rare-earth (R $=$ La, Y, Lu) and Bi-based biferroic chromites, focusing on $\Gamma$ and $R$ point phonons of states with para-, ferro-, and antiferromagnetic ordering. We find that (a) the structure with G-type antiferromagnetic ordering is most stable, (b) the most dominant structural instabilities in these oxides are the ones associated with rotations of oxygen octahedra, and (c) structural instabilities involving changes in Cr-O-Cr bond angle depend sensitively on the changes in magnetic ordering. The dependence of structural instabilities on magnetic ordering can be understood in terms of how super-exchange interactions depend on the Cr-O-Cr bond angles and Cr-O bond lengths. We demonstrate how adequate buckling of Cr-O-Cr chains can favour ferromagnetism. Born effective charges (BEC) calculated using the Berry phase expression are found to be anomalously large for the A-cations, indicating their chemical relevance to ferroelectric distortions. 
0704.01252	LNRF-velocity hump-induced oscillations of a Keplerian disc orbiting  near-extreme Kerr black hole: A possible explanation of high-frequency QPOs  in GRS 1915+105	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Z. Stuchlik, P.Slany, G. Torok	 Abstract: At least four high-frequency quasiperiodic oscillations (QPOs) at frequencies 41Hz, 67Hz, 113Hz, and 167Hz were reported in a binary system GRS 1915+105 hosting near-extreme Kerr black hole with a dimensionless spin a>0.98. We use the idea of oscillations induced by the hump of the orbital velocity profile (related to locally non-rotating frames - LNRF) in discs orbiting near-extreme Kerr black holes, which are characterized by a "humpy frequency" f_h, that could excite the radial and vertical epicyclic oscillations with frequencies f_r, f_v. Due to non-linear resonant phenomena the combinational frequencies are allowed as well. Assuming mass M=14.8M_sun and spin a=0.9998 for the GRS 1915+105 Kerr black hole, the model predicts frequencies f_h=41Hz, f_r=67Hz, (f_h+f_r)=108Hz, (f_v-f_r)=170Hz corresponding quite well to the observed ones. For black-hole parameters being in good agreement with those given observationally, the forced resonant phenomena in non-linear oscillations, excited by the "hump-induced" oscillations in a Keplerian disc, can explain high-frequency QPOs in GRS 1915+105 within the range of observational errors. 
0704.01253	Compton thick AGN in the Suzaku era	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Comastri (INAF-OAB), R. Gilli (INAF-OAB), C. Vignali (Dip. Astronomia, UniBo), G. Matt (Dip. Fisica, RomaTre), F. Fiore (INAF-OAR), K. Iwasawa (MPE)	 Abstract: Suzaku observations of two hard X-ray (> 10 keV) selected nearby Seyfert 2 galaxies are presented. Both sources were clearly detected with the PIN Hard X-ray Detector up to several tens of keV, allowing for a fairly good characterization of the broad band X-ray continuum. Both sources are heavily obscured, one of which (NGC 5728) being Compton thick, while at lower energies the shape and intensity of the scattered/reflected continuum is very different. Strong iron Kalpha lines are detected in both sources. There are also hints for the presence of a broad relativistic iron line in NGC 4992. 
0704.01254	Spin-dependence of Ce $4f$ hybridization in magnetically ordered  systems: A spin-resolved photoemission study of Ce/Fe(110)	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Yu. S. Dedkov, M. Fonin, Yu. Kucherenko, S. L. Molodtsov, U. Rüdiger, C. Laubschat	 Abstract: Spin- and angle-resolved resonant (Ce $4d\to4f$) photoemission spectra of a monolayer Ce on Fe(110) reveal spin-dependent changes of the Fermi-level peak intensities. That indicate a spin-dependence of $4f$ hybridization and, thus, of $4f$ occupancy and local moment. The phenomenon is described in the framework of the periodic Anderson model by $4f$ electron hopping into the exchange split Fe 3d derived bands that form a spin-gap at the Fermi energy around the $\bar{\Gamma}$ point of the surface Brillouin zone. 
0704.01255	Two-way coupling of FENE dumbbells with a turbulent shear flow	Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)	Authors:Thomas Peters, Joerg Schumacher	 Abstract: We present numerical studies for finitely extensible nonlinear elastic (FENE) dumbbells which are dispersed in a turbulent plane shear flow at moderate Reynolds number. The polymer ensemble is described on the mesoscopic level by a set of stochastic ordinary differential equations with Brownian noise. The dynamics of the Newtonian solvent is determined by the Navier-Stokes equations. Momentum transfer of the dumbbells with the solvent is implemented by an additional volume forcing term in the Navier-Stokes equations, such that both components of the resulting viscoelastic fluid are connected by a two-way coupling. The dynamics of the dumbbells is given then by Newton's second law of motion including small inertia effects. We investigate the dynamics of the flow for different degrees of dumbbell elasticity and inertia, as given by Weissenberg and Stokes numbers, respectively. For the parameters accessible in our study, the magnitude of the feedback of the polymers on the macroscopic properties of turbulence remains small as quantified by the global energy budget and the Reynolds stresses. A reduction of the turbulent drag by up to 20% is observed for the larger particle inertia. The angular statistics of the dumbbells shows an increasing alignment with the mean flow direction for both, increasing elasticity and inertia. This goes in line with a growing asymmetry of the probability density function of the transverse derivative of the streamwise turbulent velocity component. We find that dumbbells get stretched referentially in regions where vortex stretching or bi-axial strain dominate the local dynamics and topology of the velocity gradient tensor. 
0704.01256	A Novel String Derived Z' With Stable Proton, Light-Neutrinos and  R-parity violation	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Claudio Coriano, Alon E. Faraggi, Marco Guzzi	 Abstract: The Standard Model indicates the realization of grand unified structures in nature, and can only be viewed as an effective theory below a higher energy cutoff. While the renormalizable Standard Model forbids proton decay mediating operators due to accidental global symmetries, many extensions of the Standard Model introduce such dimension four, five and six operators. Furthermore, quantum gravity effects are expected to induce proton instability, indicating that the higher energy cutoff scale must be above 10^{16}GeV. Quasi-realistic heterotic string models provide the arena to explore how perturbative quantum gravity affects the particle physics phenomenology. An appealing explanation for the proton longevity is provided by the existence of an Abelian gauge symmetry that suppresses the proton decay mediating operators. Additionally, such a low-scale U(1) symmetry should: allow the suppression of the left-handed neutrino masses by a seesaw mechanism; allow fermion Yukawa couplings to the electroweak Higgs doublets; be anomaly free; be family universal. These requirements render the existence of such U(1) symmetries in quasi-realistic heterotic string models highly non-trivial. We demonstrate the existence of a U(1) symmetry that satisfies all of the above requirements in a class of left-right symmetric heterotic string models in the free fermionic formulation. The existence of the extra Z' in the energy range accessible to future experiments is motivated by the requirement of adequate suppression of proton decay mediation. We further show that while the extra U(1) forbids dimension four baryon number violating operators it allows dimension four lepton number violating operators and R-parity violation. 
0704.01257	Complexity of Janet basis of a D-module	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Alexander Chistov, Dima Grigoriev	 Abstract: We prove a double-exponential upper bound on the degree and on the complexity of constructing a Janet basis of a $D$-module. This generalizes a well known bound on the complexity of a Gr\"obner basis of a module over the algebra of polynomials. We would like to emphasize that the obtained bound can not be immediately deduced from the commutative case. 
0704.01258	Evidence for a merger of binary white dwarfs: the case of GD 362	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:E. Garcia-Berro, P. Loren-Aguilar, A.G. Pedemonte, J. Isern, P. Bergeron, P. Dufour, P. Brassard	 Abstract: GD 362 is a massive white dwarf with a spectrum suggesting a H-rich atmosphere which also shows very high abundances of Ca, Mg, Fe and other metals. However, for pure H-atmospheres the diffusion timescales are so short that very extreme assumptions have to be made to account for the observed abundances of metals. The most favored hypothesis is that the metals are accreted from either a dusty disk or from an asteroid belt. Here we propose that the envelope of GD 362 is dominated by He, which at these effective temperatures is almost completely invisible in the spectrum. This assumption strongly alleviates the problem, since the diffusion timescales are much larger for He-dominated atmospheres. We also propose that the He-dominated atmosphere of GD 362 is likely to be the result of the merger of a binary white dwarf. 
0704.01259	Intersection local time for two independent fractional Brownian motions	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:David Nualart, Salvador Ortiz-Latorre	 Abstract: We prove the existence of the intersection local time for two independent, d -dimensional fractional Brownian motions with the same Hurst parameter H. Assume d greater or equal to 2, then the intersection local time exists if and only if Hd<2. 
0704.01260	Lapse of transmission phase and electron molecules in quantum dots	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:S.A. Gurvitz	 Abstract: The puzzling behavior of the transition phase through a quantum dot can be understood in a natural way via a formation of the electron molecule in the quantum dot. In this case the resonance tunneling takes place through the quasi-stationary (doorway) state, which emerges when the number of electrons occupying the dot reaches a certain ``critical'' value, $N_{cr}$. Our estimation of this quantity agrees with the experimental data. The dependence of $N_{cr}$ on the dot's size is predicted as well. 
0704.01261	Quantum-corrected black hole thermodynamics to all orders in the Planck  length	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Khireddine Nouicer	 Abstract: We investigate the effects to all orders in the Planck length from a generalized un- certainty principle (GUP) on black holes thermodynamics. We calculate the corrected Hawking temperature, entropy, and examine in details the Hawking evaporation process. As a result, the evaporation process is accelerated and the evaporation end-point is a zero entropy, zero heat capacity and finite non zero temperature black hole remnant (BHR). In particular we obtain a drastic reduction of the decay time, in comparison with the results obtained in the Hawking semi classical picture and with the GUP to leading order in the Planck length. 
0704.01262	Symmetry Breaking Study with Deformed Ensembles	Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)	Authors:J. X. Carvalho, M. S. Hussein, M. P. Pato, A. J. Sargeant	 Abstract: A random matrix model to describe the coupling of m-fold symmetry in constructed. The particular threefold case is used to analyze data on eigenfrequencies of elastomechanical vibration of an anisotropic quartz block. It is suggested that such experimental/theoretical study may supply powerful means to discern intrinsic symmetries in physical systems. 
0704.01263	The Measurement Calculus	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Vincent Danos, Elham Kashefi, Prakash Panangaden	 Abstract: Measurement-based quantum computation has emerged from the physics community as a new approach to quantum computation where the notion of measurement is the main driving force of computation. This is in contrast with the more traditional circuit model which is based on unitary operations. Among measurement-based quantum computation methods, the recently introduced one-way quantum computer stands out as fundamental. We develop a rigorous mathematical model underlying the one-way quantum computer and present a concrete syntax and operational semantics for programs, which we call patterns, and an algebra of these patterns derived from a denotational semantics. More importantly, we present a calculus for reasoning locally and compositionally about these patterns. We present a rewrite theory and prove a general standardization theorem which allows all patterns to be put in a semantically equivalent standard form. Standardization has far-reaching consequences: a new physical architecture based on performing all the entanglement in the beginning, parallelization by exposing the dependency structure of measurements and expressiveness theorems. Furthermore we formalize several other measurement-based models: Teleportation, Phase and Pauli models and present compositional embeddings of them into and from the one-way model. This allows us to transfer all the theory we develop for the one-way model to these models. This shows that the framework we have developed has a general impact on measurement-based computation and is not just particular to the one-way quantum computer. 
0704.01264	Aharonov-Bohm oscillations in the presence of strong spin-orbit  interactions	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Boris Grbic, Renaud Leturcq, Thomas Ihn, Klaus Ensslin, Dirk Reuter, Andreas D. Wieck	 Abstract: We have measured highly visible Aharonov-Bohm (AB) oscillations in a ring structure defined by local anodic oxidation on a p-type GaAs heterostructure with strong spin-orbit interactions. Clear beating patterns observed in the raw data can be interpreted in terms of a spin geometric phase. Besides h/e oscillations, we resolve the contributions from the second harmonic of AB oscillations and also find a beating in these h/2e oscillations. A resistance minimum at B=0T, present in all gate configurations, is the signature of destructive interference of the spins propagating along time-reversed paths. 
0704.01265	Radio and X-ray nebulae associated with PSR J1509-5850	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C. Y. Hui, W. Becker (MPE)	 Abstract: We have discovered a long radio trail at 843 MHz which is apparently associated with middle age pulsar PSR J1509-5850. The radio trail has a length of ~7 arcmin. In X-rays, Chandra observations of PSR J1509-5850 reveal an associated X-ray trail which extends in the same orientation as the radio trail. Moreover, two clumpy structures are observed along the radio trail. The larger one is proposed to be the supernova remnant (SNR) candidate MSC 319.9-0.7. Faint X-ray enhancement at the position of the SNR candidate is found in the Chandra data. 
0704.01266	Branching fraction and charge asymmetry measurements in B to J/psi pi pi  decays	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:The BABAR collaboration, B. Aubert, et al	 Abstract: We study the decays B0 to J/psi pi+pi- and B+ to J/psi pi+pi0, including intermediate resonances, using a sample of 382 million BBbar pairs recorded by the BaBar detector at the PEP-II e+e- B factory. We measure the branching fractions B(B0 ->J/psi rho0) = (2.7 +/- 0.3 +/- 0.17) x 10-5 and B(B+ ->J/psi rho+) = (5.0 +/- 0.7 +/-0.31) x 10-5. We also set the following upper limits at the 90% confidence level: B(B0 -> J/psi pi+ \pi- non-resonant) < 1.2 x 10-5, B(B0 -> J/psi f_2(1270)) < 4.6 x 10-6, and B(B+ -> J/psi pi+ pi0 non-resonant) < 4.4 x 10-6. We measure the charge asymmetry in charged B decays to J/psi rho to be -0.11 +/- 0.12 +/- 0.08. 
0704.01267	Text Line Segmentation of Historical Documents: a Survey	Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)	Authors:Laurence Likforman-Sulem, Abderrazak Zahour, Bruno Taconet	 Abstract: There is a huge amount of historical documents in libraries and in various National Archives that have not been exploited electronically. Although automatic reading of complete pages remains, in most cases, a long-term objective, tasks such as word spotting, text/image alignment, authentication and extraction of specific fields are in use today. For all these tasks, a major step is document segmentation into text lines. Because of the low quality and the complexity of these documents (background noise, artifacts due to aging, interfering lines),automatic text line segmentation remains an open research field. The objective of this paper is to present a survey of existing methods, developed during the last decade, and dedicated to documents of historical interest. 
0704.01268	On the interpretation of muon-spin-rotation experiments in the mixed  state of type-II superconductors	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:I.L. Landau, H. Keller	 Abstract: We argue that claims about magnetic field dependence of the magnetic field penetration depth lambda, which were made on the basis of moun-spin-rotation studies of some superconductors, originate from insufficient accuracy of theoretical models employed for the data analysis. We also reanalyze some of already published experimental data and demonstrate that numerical calculations of Brandt [E.H. Brandt, Phys. Rev. B 68, 54506 (2003)] may serve as a reliable and powerful tool for the analysis of the data collected in experiments with conventional superconductors. Furthermore, one can use this approach in order to distinguish between conventional and unconventional superconductors. It is unfortunate that these calculations have practically never been employed for such analyses. 
0704.01269	Phase Transitions in the Coloring of Random Graphs	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Lenka Zdeborová, Florent Krzakala	 Abstract: We consider the problem of coloring the vertices of a large sparse random graph with a given number of colors so that no adjacent vertices have the same color. Using the cavity method, we present a detailed and systematic analytical study of the space of proper colorings (solutions). We show that for a fixed number of colors and as the average vertex degree (number of constraints) increases, the set of solutions undergoes several phase transitions similar to those observed in the mean field theory of glasses. First, at the clustering transition, the entropically dominant part of the phase space decomposes into an exponential number of pure states so that beyond this transition a uniform sampling of solutions becomes hard. Afterward, the space of solutions condenses over a finite number of the largest states and consequently the total entropy of solutions becomes smaller than the annealed one. Another transition takes place when in all the entropically dominant states a finite fraction of nodes freezes so that each of these nodes is allowed a single color in all the solutions inside the state. Eventually, above the coloring threshold, no more solutions are available. We compute all the critical connectivities for Erdos-Renyi and regular random graphs and determine their asymptotic values for large number of colors. Finally, we discuss the algorithmic consequences of our findings. We argue that the onset of computational hardness is not associated with the clustering transition and we suggest instead that the freezing transition might be the relevant phenomenon. We also discuss the performance of a simple local Walk-COL algorithm and of the belief propagation algorithm in the light of our results. 
0704.01270	Core-Corona Separation in Ultra-Relativistic Heavy Ion Collisions	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Klaus Werner	 Abstract: Simple geometrical considerations show that the collision zone in high energy nuclear collisions may be divided into a central part (``core''), with high energy densities, and a peripheral part (``corona''), with smaller energy densities, more like in pp or pA collisions. We present calculations which allow to separate these two contributions, and which show that the corona contribution is quite small (but not negligible) for central collisions, but gets increasingly important with decreasing centrality. We will discuss consequences concerning results obtained in heavy ion collisions at the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC) and the Super Proton Synchrotron (SPS). 
0704.01271	Numerical Evaluation of Six-Photon Amplitudes	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Giovanni Ossola, Costas G. Papadopoulos (Democritos Nucl. Res. Ctr.), Roberto Pittau (Turin U. & INFN, Turin)	 Abstract: We apply the recently proposed amplitude reduction at the integrand level method, to the computation of the scattering process 2 photons -> 4 photons, including the case of a massive fermion loop. We also present several improvements of the method, including a general strategy to reconstruct the rational part of any one-loop amplitude and the treatment of vanishing Gram-determinants. 
0704.01272	Dynamics of shear homeomorphisms of tori and the Bestvina-Handel  algorithm	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Tali Pinsky, Bronislaw Wajnryb	 Abstract: Sharkovskii proved that the existence of a periodic orbit in a one-dimensional dynamical system implies existence of infinitely many periodic orbits. We obtain an analog of Sharkovskii's theorem for periodic orbits of shear homeomorphisms of the torus. This is done by obtaining a dynamical order relation on the set of simple orbits and simple pairs. We then use this order relation for a global analysis for a quantum chaotic physical system called the kicked accelerated particle. 
0704.01273	Coniveau over $p$-adic fields and points over finite fields	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Hélène Esnault	 Abstract: If the $\ell$-adic cohomology of a projective smooth variety, defined over a $\frak{p}$-adic field $K$ with finite residue field $k$, is supported in codimension $\ge 1$, then any model over the ring of integers of $K$ has a $k$-rational point. This slightly improves our earlier result math/0405318: we needed there the model to be regular (but then our result was more general: we obtained a congruence for the number of points, and $K$ could be local of characteristic $p>0$). 
0704.01274	Parametric Learning and Monte Carlo Optimization	Learning (cs.LG)	Authors:David H. Wolpert, Dev G. Rajnarayan	 Abstract: This paper uncovers and explores the close relationship between Monte Carlo Optimization of a parametrized integral (MCO), Parametric machine-Learning (PL), and `blackbox' or `oracle'-based optimization (BO). We make four contributions. First, we prove that MCO is mathematically identical to a broad class of PL problems. This identity potentially provides a new application domain for all broadly applicable PL techniques: MCO. Second, we introduce immediate sampling, a new version of the Probability Collectives (PC) algorithm for blackbox optimization. Immediate sampling transforms the original BO problem into an MCO problem. Accordingly, by combining these first two contributions, we can apply all PL techniques to BO. In our third contribution we validate this way of improving BO by demonstrating that cross-validation and bagging improve immediate sampling. Finally, conventional MC and MCO procedures ignore the relationship between the sample point locations and the associated values of the integrand; only the values of the integrand at those locations are considered. We demonstrate that one can exploit the sample location information using PL techniques, for example by forming a fit of the sample locations to the associated values of the integrand. This provides an additional way to apply PL techniques to improve MCO. 
0704.01275	On the Structure and Properties of Differentially Rotating Main-Sequence  Stars in the 1-2 M_sun Range	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K. B. MacGregor, Stephen Jackson, Andrew Skumanich, T. S. Metcalfe	 Abstract: We conduct a systematic examination of the properties of models for chemically homogeneous, differentially rotating, main-sequence stars of mass 1-2 M_sun. The models were constructed using a code based on a reformulation of the self-consistent field method of computing the equilibrium stellar structure for a specified conservative internal rotation law. [abridged] Relative to nonrotating stars of the same mass, these models all have reduced luminosities and effective temperatures, and flattened photospheric shapes (i.e., decreased polar radii) with equatorial radii that can be larger or smaller, depending on the degree of differential rotation. For a fixed ratio of the axial rotation rate to the surface equatorial rotation rate, increasingly rapid rotation generally deepens convective envelopes, shrinks convective cores, and can lead to the presence of a convective core (envelope) in a 1 M_sun (2 M_sun) model, a feature that is absent in a nonrotating star of the same mass. The positions of differentially rotating models for a given mass M in the H-R diagram can be shifted in such a way as to approximate the nonrotating ZAMS over ranges in luminosity and effective temperature that correspond to a mass interval between M and about 0.7 M. We briefly note a few of the implications of these results, including (i) possible ambiguities arising from similarities between the properties of rotating and nonrotating models of different masses, (ii) a reduced radiative luminosity for a young, rapidly rotating Sun, (iii) the nuclear destruction of lithium and other light metallic species in the layers beneath an outer convective envelope, and (iv), the excitation of solar-like oscillations and the operation of a solar-like hydromagnetic dynamo in some 1.5-2 M_sun stars. 
0704.01276	SDSS J102146.44+234926.3: New WZ Sge-type dwarf nova	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Alex Golovin, Ayani Kazuya, Pavlenko Elena P., Krajci Tom, Kuznyetsova Yuliana, Henden Arne, Krushevska Victoria, Dvorak Shawn, Sokolovsky Kirill, Sergeeva Tatyana P., James Robert, Crawford Tim, Corp Laurent	 Abstract: We report CCD photometry and spectroscopy during 2006 outburst of the dwarf nova SDSS J102146.44+234926.3 (SDSS J1021). The photographic plates from the MAO, SAI and CrAO plate archives, which cover the position of the SDSS J1021, were inspected for the presence of previous outbursts. We also present the BVRcIc photometric calibration of 52 stars in SDSS J1021 vicinity, which have V-magnitude in the range of 11.21-17.23m and can serve as comparison stars. The large amplitude of the SDSS J1021 outburst of 7m, superhumps with a period below the ''period gap'', rebrightening during the declining stage of superoutburst, rarity of outbursts and obtained spectrum allow to classify this object as a WZ Sge type dwarf nova. 
0704.01277	Discrete phase space and minimum-uncertainty states	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:William K. Wootters, Daniel M. Sussman	 Abstract: The quantum state of a system of qubits can be represented by a Wigner function on a discrete phase space, each axis of the phase space taking values in a finite field. Within this framework, we show that one can make sense of the notion of a "rotationally invariant state" of any collection of qubits, and that any such state is, in a well defined sense, a state of minimum uncertainty. 
0704.01278	Turbulent Mixing in the Surface Layers of Accreting Neutron Stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Anthony L. Piro (KITP, UCB), Lars Bildsten (KITP)	 Abstract: During accretion a neutron star (NS) is spun up as angular momentum is transported through its surface layers. We study the resulting differentially rotating profile, focusing on the impact this has for type I X-ray bursts. The predominant viscosity is likely provided by the Tayler-Spruit dynamo. The radial and azimuthal magnetic field components have strengths of ~10^5 G and ~10^10 G, respectively. This leads to nearly uniform rotation at the depths of interest for X-ray bursts. A remaining small shear transmits the accreted angular momentum inward to the NS interior. Though this shear gives little viscous heating, it can trigger turbulent mixing. Detailed simulations will be required to fully understand the consequences of mixing, but our models illustrate some general features. Mixing has the greatest impact when the buoyancy at the compositional discontinuity between accreted matter and ashes is overcome. This occurs at high accretion rates, at low spin frequencies, or may depend on the ashes from the previous burst. We then find two new regimes of burning. The first is ignition in a layer containing a mixture of heavier elements from the ashes. If ignition occurs at the base of the mixed layer, recurrence times as short as ~5-30 minutes are possible. This may explain the short recurrence time of some bursts, but incomplete burning is still needed to explain these bursts' energetics. When mixing is sufficiently strong, a second regime is found where accreted helium mixes deep enough to burn stably, quenching X-ray bursts. We speculate that the observed change in X-ray burst properties near one-tenth the Eddington accretion rate is from this mechanism. The carbon-rich material produced by stable helium burning would be important for triggering and fueling superbursts. (abridged) 
0704.01279	Wide-bandwidth, tunable, multiple-pulse-width optical delays using slow  light in cesium vapor	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Ryan M. Camacho, Michael V. Pack, John C. Howell, Aaron Schweinsberg, Robert W. Boyd	 Abstract: We demonstrate an all-optical delay line in hot cesium vapor that tunably delays 275 ps input pulses up to 6.8 ns and 740 input ps pulses up to 59 ns (group index of approximately 200) with little pulse distortion. The delay is made tunable with a fast reconfiguration time (hundreds of ns) by optically pumping out of the atomic ground states. 
0704.01280	Controllable Quantum Switchboard	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:D. Kaszlikowski, L. C. Kwek, C. H. Lai, V. Vedral	 Abstract: All quantum information processes inevitably requires the explicit state preparation of an entangled state. Here we present the construction of a quantum switchboard which can act both as an optimal quantum cloning machine and a quantum demultiplexer based on the preparation of a four-qubit state. 
0704.01281	The Galactic Center	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. Genzel, V. Karas	 Abstract: In the past decade high resolution measurements in the infrared employing adaptive optics imaging on 10m telescopes have allowed determining the three dimensional orbits stars within ten light hours of the compact radio source at the center of the Milky Way. These observations show the presence of a three million solar mass black hole in Sagittarius A* beyond any reasonable doubt. The Galactic Center thus constitutes the best astrophysical evidence for the existence of black holes which have long been postulated, and is also an ideal `lab' for studying the physics in the vicinity of such an object. Remarkably, young massive stars are present there and probably have formed in the innermost stellar cusp. Variable infrared and X-ray emission from Sagittarius A* are a new probe of the physical processes and space-time curvature just outside the event horizon. 
0704.01282	A geometric proof that $e$ is irrational and a new measure of its  irrationality	History and Overview (math.HO)	Authors:Jonathan Sondow	 Abstract: We give a simple geometric proof that $e$ is irrational, using a construction of a nested sequence of closed intervals with intersection $e$. The proof leads to a new measure of irrationality for $e$: if $p$ and $q$ are integers with $q > 1$, then $|e - p/q| > 1/(S(q)+1)!$, where $S(q)$ is the smallest positive integer such that $S(q)!$ is a multiple of $q$. We relate this measure for $e$ to a known one and to the greatest prime factor of an integer. We make two conjectures and recall a theorem of Cantor that can be proved by a similar construction. 
0704.01283	Scanning tunnelling microscopy for ultracold atoms	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Corinna Kollath, Michael Köhl, Thierry Giamarchi	 Abstract: We propose a novel experimental probe for cold atomic gases analogous to the scanning tunnelling microscope (STM) in condensed matter. This probe uses the coherent coupling of a single particle to the system. Depending on the measurement sequence, our probe allows to either obtain the \emph{local} density, with a resolution on the nanometer scale, or the single particle correlation function in real time. We discuss applications of this scheme to the various possible phases for a two dimensional Hubbard system of fermions in an optical lattice. 
0704.01284	Center Manifold and Lie Symmetry Calculations on a Quasi-chemical Model  for Growth-death Kinetics in Food	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Rachelle DeCoste, Louis Piscitelle	 Abstract: Food scientists at the U.S. Army's Natick Solider Center have developed a model for the lifecyle of the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus in intermediate moisture bread. In this article, we study this model using dynamical systems and Lie symmetry methods. We calculate center manifolds and Lie symmetries for different cases of parameter values and compare our results to those of the food scientists. 
0704.01285	Absence of commensurate ordering at the polarization flop transition in  multiferroic DyMnO3	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:J. Strempfer, B. Bohnenbuck, M. Mostovoy, N. Aliouane, D. N. Argyriou, F. Schrettle, J. Hemberger, A. Krimmel, M. v. Zimmermann	 Abstract: Ferroelectric spiral magnets DyMnO3 and TbMnO3 show similar behavior of electric polarization in applied magnetic fields. Studies of the field dependence of lattice modulations on the contrary show a completely different picture. Whereas in TbMnO3 the polarization flop from P||c to P||a is accompanied by a sudden change from incommensurate to commensurate wave vector modulation, in DyMnO3 the wave vector varies continuously through the flop transition. This smooth behavior may be related to the giant magnetocapacitive effect observed in DyMnO3. 
0704.01286	Study of a finite volume - finite element scheme for a nuclear transport  model	Numerical Analysis (math.NA)	Authors:Catherine Choquet, Sebastien Zimmermann	 Abstract: We consider a problem of nuclear waste contamination. It takes into account the thermal effects. The temperature and the contaminant's concentration fulfill convection-diffusion-reaction equations. The velocity and the pressure in the flow satisfy the Darcy equation, with a viscosity depending on both concentration and temperature. The equations are nonlinear and strongly coupled. Using both finite volume and nonconforming finite element methods, we introduce a scheme adapted to this problem. We prove the stability and convergence of this scheme and give some error estimates. 
0704.01287	Realizable Hamiltonians for Universal Adiabatic Quantum Computers	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Jacob D. Biamonte, Peter J. Love	 Abstract: It has been established that local lattice spin Hamiltonians can be used for universal adiabatic quantum computation. However, the 2-local model Hamiltonians used in these proofs are general and hence do not limit the types of interactions required between spins. To address this concern, the present paper provides two simple model Hamiltonians that are of practical interest to experimentalists working towards the realization of a universal adiabatic quantum computer. The model Hamiltonians presented are the simplest known QMA-complete 2-local Hamiltonians. The 2-local Ising model with 1-local transverse field which has been realized using an array of technologies, is perhaps the simplest quantum spin model but is unlikely to be universal for adiabatic quantum computation. We demonstrate that this model can be rendered universal and QMA-complete by adding a tunable 2-local transverse XX coupling. We also show the universality and QMA-completeness of spin models with only 1-local Z and X fields and 2-local ZX interactions. 
0704.01288	Quantitative size-dependent structure and strain determination of CdSe  nanoparticles using atomic pair distribution function analysis	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:A. S. Masadeh, E. Bozin, C. L. Farrow, G. Paglia, P. Juhas, A. Karkamkar, M. G. Kanatzidis, S. J. L. Billinge	 Abstract: The size-dependent structure of CdSe nanoparticles, with diameters ranging from 2 to 4 nm, has been studied using the atomic pair distribution function (PDF) method. The core structure of the measured CdSe nanoparticles can be described in terms of the wurtzite atomic structure with extensive stacking faults. The density of faults in the nanoparticles ~50% . The diameter of the core region was extracted directly from the PDF data and is in good agreement with the diameter obtained from standard characterization methods suggesting that there is little surface amorphous region. A compressive strain was measured in the Cd-Se bond length that increases with decreasing particle size being 0.5% with respect to bulk CdSe for the 2 nm diameter particles. This study demonstrates the size-dependent quantitative structural information that can be obtained even from very small nanoparticles using the PDF approach. 
0704.01289	Brane-world Quantum Gravity	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:M. D. Maia, Nildsen Silva, M.C.B. Fernandes	 Abstract: The Arnowitt-Deser-Misner canonical formulation of general relativity is extended to the covariant brane-world theory in arbitrary dimensions. The exclusive probing of the extra dimensions makes a substantial difference, allowing for the construction of a non-constrained canonical theory. The quantum states of the brane-world geometry are defined by the Tomonaga-Schwinger equation, whose integrability conditions are determined by the classical perturbations of submanifolds contained in the Nash's differentiable embedding theorem. In principle, quantum brane-world theory can be tested by current experiments in astrophysics and by near future laboratory experiments at Tev energy. The implications to the black-hole information loss problem, to the accelerating cosmology, and to a quantum mathematical theory of four-sub manifolds are briefly commented. 
0704.01290	Isospin diffusion in thermal AdS/CFT with flavor	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Johanna Erdmenger, Matthias Kaminski, Felix Rust	 Abstract: We study the gauge/gravity dual of a finite temperature field theory at finite isospin chemical potential by considering a probe of two coincident D7-branes embedded in the AdS-Schwarzschild black hole background. The isospin chemical potential is obtained by giving a vev to the time component of the non-Abelian gauge field on the brane. The fluctuations of the non-Abelian gauge field on the brane are dual to the SU(2) flavor current in the field theory. For the embedding corresponding to vanishing quark mass, we calculate all Green functions corresponding to the components of the flavor current correlator. We discuss the physical properties of these Green functions, which go beyond linear response theory. In particular, we show that the isospin chemical potential leads to a frequency-dependent isospin diffusion coefficient. 
0704.01291	Projective Hilbert space structures at exceptional points	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Uwe Guenther, Ingrid Rotter, Boris F. Samsonov	 Abstract: A non-Hermitian complex symmetric 2x2 matrix toy model is used to study projective Hilbert space structures in the vicinity of exceptional points (EPs). The bi-orthogonal eigenvectors of a diagonalizable matrix are Puiseux-expanded in terms of the root vectors at the EP. It is shown that the apparent contradiction between the two incompatible normalization conditions with finite and singular behavior in the EP-limit can be resolved by projectively extending the original Hilbert space. The complementary normalization conditions correspond then to two different affine charts of this enlarged projective Hilbert space. Geometric phase and phase jump behavior are analyzed and the usefulness of the phase rigidity as measure for the distance to EP configurations is demonstrated. Finally, EP-related aspects of PT-symmetrically extended Quantum Mechanics are discussed and a conjecture concerning the quantum brachistochrone problem is formulated. 
0704.01292	Excitation of the dissipationless Higgs mode in a fermionic condensate	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:R. A. Barankov, L. S. Levitov	 Abstract: The amplitude mode of a fermionic superfluid, analogous to the Higgs Boson, becomes undamped in the strong coupling regime when its frequency is pushed inside the BCS energy gap. We argue that this is the case in cold gases due to the energy dispersion and nonlocality of the pairing interaction, and propose to use the Feshbach resonance regime for parametric excitation of this mode. The results presented for the BCS pairing dynamics indicate that even weak dispersion suppresses dephasing and gives rise to persistent oscillations. The frequency of oscillations extracted from our simulation of the BCS dynamics agrees with the prediction of the many-body theory. 
0704.01293	Two characterizations of crooked functions	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Aidan Roy, Chris Godsil	 Abstract: We give two characterizations of crooked functions: one based on the minimum distance of a Preparata-like code, and the other based on the distance-regularity of a crooked graph. 
0704.01294	A Disciplined Approach to Adopting Agile Practices: The Agile Adoption  Framework	Software Engineering (cs.SE)	Authors:Ahmed Sidky, James Arthur, Shawn Bohner	 Abstract: Many organizations aspire to adopt agile processes to take advantage of the numerous benefits that it offers to an organization. Those benefits include, but are not limited to, quicker return on investment, better software quality, and higher customer satisfaction. To date however, there is no structured process (at least in the public domain) that guides organizations in adopting agile practices. To address this problem we present the Agile Adoption Framework. The framework consists of two components: an agile measurement index, and a 4-Stage process, that together guide and assist the agile adoption efforts of organizations. More specifically, the agile measurement index is used to identify the agile potential of projects and organizations. The 4-Stage process, on the other hand, helps determine (a) whether or not organizations are ready for agile adoption, and (b) guided by their potential, what set of agile practices can and should be introduced. 
0704.01295	Electronic structure of the noncentrosymmetric superconductor  Mg10Ir19B16	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:B. Wiendlocha, J. Tobola, S. Kaprzyk	 Abstract: Electronic structure of a novel superconducting noncentrosymmetric compound Mg10Ir19B16 was calculated using the Korringa-Kohn-Rostoker method. Electronic part of the electron-phonon coupling constant, McMillan-Hopfield parameters, were calculated using the rigid-muffin-tin approximation (RMTA). The magnitude of the electron-phonon coupling constant, analysing atomic contributions, is discussed. Our results show, that superconductivity in Mg10Ir19B16 is presumably mediated by electron-phonon interaction. 
0704.01296	Prospects of using simulations to study the photospheres of brown dwarfs	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Hans-G. Ludwig	 Abstract: We discuss prospects of using multi-dimensional time-dependent simulations to study the atmospheres of brown dwarfs and extrasolar giant planets, including the processes of convection, radiation, dust formation, and rotation. We argue that reasonably realistic simulations are feasible, however, separated into two classes of local and global models. Numerical challenges are related to potentially large dynamic ranges, and the treatment of scattering of radiation in multi-D geometries. 
0704.01297	The exceptionally extended flaring activity in the X-ray afterglow of  GRB 050730 observed with Swift and XMM-Newton	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Perri, D. Guetta, L.A. Antonelli, A. Cucchiara, V. Mangano, J. Reeves, L. Angelini, A.P. Beardmore, P. Boyd, D.N. Burrows, S. Campana, M. Capalbi, G. Chincarini, G. Cusumano, P. Giommi, J.E. Hill, S.T. Holland, V. La Parola, T. Mineo, A. Moretti, J.A. Nousek, J.P. Osborne, C. Pagani, P. Romano, P.W.A. Roming, R.L.C. Starling, G. Tagliaferri, E. Troja, L. Vetere, N. Gehrels	 Abstract: We present the results of a detailed spectral and temporal analysis of Swift and XMM-Newton observations of the high redshift (z=3.969) GRB 050730. The X-ray afterglow of GRB 050730 was found to decline with time with superimposed intense flaring activity that extended over more than two orders of magnitude in time. Seven distinct re-brightening events starting from 236 s up to 41.2 ks after the burst were observed. The underlying decay of the afterglow was well described by a double broken power-law model with breaks at t_1= 237 +/- 20 s and t_2 = 10.1 (-2.2) (+4.6) ks. The temporal decay slopes before, between and after these breaks were alpha_1 = 2.1 +/- 0.3, alpha_2 = 0.44 (-0.08) (+0.14) and alpha_3 = 2.40 (+0.07) (-0.09), respectively. The spectrum of the X-ray afterglow was well described by a photoelectrically absorbed power-law with an absorbing column density N_H=(1.28 +/- 0.26) 10^22 cm^-2 in the host galaxy. Strong X-ray spectral evolution during the flaring activity was present. In the majority of the flares (6/7) the ratio Delta_t/t_p between the duration of the event and the time when the flare peaks was nearly constant and about 0.6-0.7. We showed that the observed spectral and temporal properties of the first three flares are consistent with being due both to high-latitude emission, as expected if the flares were produced by late internal shocks, or to refreshed shocks, i.e. late time energy injections into the main afterglow shock by slow moving shells ejected from the central engine during the prompt phase. The event fully satisfies the E_p-E_iso Amati relation while is not consistent with the E_p-E_jet Ghirlanda relation. 
0704.01298	The obscured quasar population from optical, mid-infrared, and X-ray  surveys	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C. Vignali (1,2), A. Comastri (2), D. M. Alexander (3) ((1) Dipartimento di Astronomia, Universita' di Bologna, Italy; (2) INAF - Osservatorio Astronomico di Bologna, Italy; (3) Department of Physics, Durham University, UK)	 Abstract: Over the last few years, optical, mid-infrared and X-ray surveys have brought to light a significant number of candidate obscured AGN and, among them, many Type 2 quasars, the long-sought after "big cousins'' of local Seyfert 2 galaxies. However, despite the large amount of multi-wavelength data currently available, a proper census and a panchromatic view of the obscured AGN/quasar population are still missing, mainly due to observational limitations. Here we provide a review of recent results on the identification of obscured AGN, focusing primarily on the population of Type 2 quasars selected in the optical band from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey. 
0704.01299	The Realm of the First Quasars in the Universe: the X-ray View	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C. Vignali (1), W.N. Brandt (2), O. Shemmer (2), A. Steffen (2), D.P. Schneider (2), S. Kaspi (3,4) (Dipartimento di Astronomia, Universita' di Bologna, Italy; (2) Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, USA; (3) Wise Observatory, Tel Aviv University, Israel; (4) Physics Department, Technion, Haifa, Israel)	 Abstract: We review the X-ray studies of the highest redshift quasars, focusing on the results obtained with Chandra and XMM-Newton. Overall, the X-ray and broad-band properties of z>4 quasars and local quasars are similar, suggesting that the small-scale X-ray emission regions of AGN are insensitive to the significant changes occurring at z=0-6. 
0704.01300	The obscured X-ray source population in the HELLAS2XMM survey: the  Spitzer view	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C. Vignali (1,2), Francesca Pozzi (1), A. Comastri (2), L. Pozzetti (2), M. Mignoli (2), C. Gruppioni (2), G. Zamorani (2), C. Lari (3), F. Civano (1), M. Brusa (4), F. Fiore (5), R. Maiolino (5) ((1) Dipartimento di Astronomia, Universita' di Bologna, Italy; (2) INAF - Osservatorio Astronomico di Bologna, Italy; (3) INAF - Istituto di Radioastronomia (IRA), Bologna, Italy; (4) MPE, Garching, Germany; (5) INAF - Osservatorio Astronomico di Roma, Monteporzio-Catone (RM), Italy)	 Abstract: Recent X-ray surveys have provided a large number of high-luminosity, obscured Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN), the so-called Type 2 quasars. Despite the large amount of multi-wavelength supporting data, the main parameters related to the black holes harbored in such AGN are still poorly known. Here we present the results obtained for a sample of eight Type 2 quasars in the redshift range 0.9-2.1 selected from the HELLAS2XMM survey, for which we used Ks-band, Spitzer IRAC and MIPS data at 24 micron to estimate bolometric corrections, black hole masses, and Eddington ratios. 
0704.01301	IRAS 18317-0757: A Cluster of Embedded Massive Stars and Protostars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T.R. Hunter, Q. Zhang, T.K. Sridharan	 Abstract: We present high-resolution, multiwavelength continuum and molecular-line images of the massive star forming region IRAS 18317-0757. The IR through mm spectral energy distribution can be approximated by a two-temperature model (25 and 63 K) with a total luminosity of approximately log(L/Lsun)=5.2. Previous submm imaging resolved this region into a cluster of 5 dust cores, one of which is associated with the UCHII region G23.96+0.15, and another with an H2O maser. In our new 2.7 mm continuum image, only the UCHII region is detected, with total flux and morphology in good agreement with the free-free emission in VLA cm-wave maps. For the other four objects, the nondetections at 2.7 mm and in the MSX mid-IR bands are consistent with cool dust emission with a temperature of 13-40K and luminosity of 1000-40000 Lsun. By combining single-dish and interferometric data, we have identified over two dozen virialized C18O cores in this region that contain ~40% of the total molecular gas mass present. While the overall extent of the C18O and dust emission is similar, the emission peaks do not correlate well in detail. At least 11 of the 123 stars identified by 2MASS in this region are likely to be within the star-forming cluster. Two stars (both associated with the UCHII region) were previously identified as O stars via IR spectroscopy. Most of the rest of the reddened stars have no obvious correlation with the C18O cores or the dust cores. In summary, our observations indicate that considerable fragmentation of the molecular cloud has taken place during the time required for the UCHII region to form and the O stars to become detectable at IR wavelengths. Additional star formation appears to be ongoing on the periphery of the central region, where up to four B-type (proto)stars have formed among a substantial number of C18O molecular cores. 
0704.01302	Photometry of the SW Sex-type nova-like BH Lyncis in high state	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:V. Stanishev, Z. Kraicheva, V. Genkov	 Abstract: Aims: We present a photometric study of the deeply eclipsing SW Sex-type nova-like cataclysmic variable star BH Lyn Methods: Time-resolved V-band CCD photometry was obtained for seven nights between 1999 and 2004. Results: We determined 11 new eclipse timings of BH Lyn and derived a refined orbital ephemeris with an orbital period of 0.155875577(14) day. During the observations, BH Lyn was in high-state with V~15.5 mag. The star presents ~1.5 mag deep eclipses with mean full-width at half-flux of 0.0683(+/-0.0054)P_orb. The eclipse shape is highly variable, even changing form cycle to cycle. This is most likely due to accretion disc surface brightness distribution variations, most probably caused by strong flickering. Time-dependent accretion disc self-occultation or variations of the hot spot(s) intensity are also possible explanations. Negative superhumps with period of ~0.145 day are detected in two long runs in 2000. A possible connection between SW Sex and negative superhump phenomena through the presence of tilted accretion disc is discussed, and a way to observationally test this is suggested. 
0704.01303	General Doppler Shift Equation and the Possibility of Systematic Error  in Calculation of Z for High Redshift Type Ia Supernovae	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Steven M Taylor	 Abstract: Systematic error in calculation of z for high redshift type Ia supernovae could help explain unexpected luminosity values that indicate an accelerating rate of expansion of the universe. 
0704.01304	The Reverse Shock of SNR 1987A	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Kevin Heng	 Abstract: The reverse shock of supernova remnant (SNR) 1987A emits in H-alpha and Ly-alpha, and comes in two flavors: surface and interior. The former is due to direct, impact excitation of hydrogen atoms crossing the shock, while the latter is the result of charge transfer reactions between these atoms and slower, post-shock ions. Interior and surface emission are analogous to the broad- and narrow-line components observed in Balmer-dominated SNRs. I summarize a formalism to derive line intensities and ratios in these SNRs, as well as a study of the transition zone in supernova shocks; I include an appendix where I derive in detail the ratio of broad to narrow H-alpha emission. Further study of the reverse shock emission from SNR 1987A will allow us to predict when it will vanish and further investigate the origins of the interior emission. 
0704.01305	Carbon Nanostructures as an Electromechanical Bicontinuum	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Cristiano Nisoli, Paul E. Lammert, Eric Mockensturm, Vincent H. Crespi	 Abstract: A two-field model provides an unifying framework for elasticity, lattice dynamics and electromechanical coupling in graphene and carbon nanotubes, describes optical phonons, nontrivial acoustic branches, strain-induced gap opening, gap-induced phonon softening, doping-induced deformations, and even the hexagonal graphenic Brillouin zone, and thus explains and extends a previously disparate accumulation of analytical and computational results. 
0704.01306	3.8-Micron Photometry During the Secondary Eclipse of the Extrasolar  Planet HD 209458b	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Drake Deming, L. Jeremy Richardson, Joseph Harrington	 Abstract: We report infrared photometry of the extrasolar planet HD 209458b during the time of secondary eclipse (planet passing behind the star). Observations were acquired during two secondary eclipses at the NASA Infrared Telescope Facility (IRTF) in September 2003. We used a circular variable filter (1.5-percent bandpass) centered at 3.8 microns to isolate the predicted flux peak of the planet at this wavelength. Residual telluric absorption and instrument variations were removed by offsetting the telescope to nearby bright comparison stars at a high temporal cadence. Our results give a secondary eclipse depth of 0.0013 +/- 0.0011, not yet sufficient precision to detect the eclipse, whose expected depth is approximately 0.002 - 0.003. We here elucidate the current observational limitations to this technique, and discuss the approach needed to achieve detections of hot Jupiter secondary eclipses at 3.8 microns from the ground. 
0704.01307	Ke4 decays and Wigner cusp	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:L. Masetti	 Abstract: The NA48/2 experiment at the CERN SPS collected in 2003 and 2004 large samples of the decays K+- -> pi+ pi- e+- nu (Ke4+-), K+- -> pi0 pi0 e+- nu (Ke400) and K+- -> pi0 pi0 pi+-. From the Ke4+- form factors and from the cusp in the M00^2 distribution of the K+- -> pi0 pi0 pi+- events, the pi-pi scattering lengths a00 and a20 could be extracted. This measurement is a fundamental test of Chiral Perturbation Theory (ChPT). The branching fraction and form factors of the Ke400 decay were precisely measured, using a much larger data sample than in previous experiments. An improved measurement of the slope parameters for the decay K+- -> pi0 pi0 pi+- showed evidence for a non-zero value of k. 
0704.01308	Antenna Combining for the MIMO Downlink Channel	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Nihar Jindal	 Abstract: A multiple antenna downlink channel where limited channel feedback is available to the transmitter is considered. In a vector downlink channel (single antenna at each receiver), the transmit antenna array can be used to transmit separate data streams to multiple receivers only if the transmitter has very accurate channel knowledge, i.e., if there is high-rate channel feedback from each receiver. In this work it is shown that channel feedback requirements can be significantly reduced if each receiver has a small number of antennas and appropriately combines its antenna outputs. A combining method that minimizes channel quantization error at each receiver, and thereby minimizes multi-user interference, is proposed and analyzed. This technique is shown to outperform traditional techniques such as maximum-ratio combining because minimization of interference power is more critical than maximization of signal power in the multiple antenna downlink. Analysis is provided to quantify the feedback savings, and the technique is seen to work well with user selection and is also robust to receiver estimation error. 
0704.01309	Quantum State Transfer with Spin Chains	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Daniel Burgarth	 Abstract: The thesis covers various aspects of quantum state transfer in permanently coupled spin systems. 
0704.01310	Thistlethwaite's theorem for virtual links	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Sergei Chmutov, Jeremy Voltz	 Abstract: The celebrated Thistlethwaite theorem relates the Jones polynomial of a link with the Tutte polynomial of the corresponding planar graph. We give a generalization of this theorem to virtual links. In this case, the graph will be embedded into a (higher genus) surface. For such graphs we use the generalization of the Tutte polynomial discovered by B.Bollobas and O.Riordan. 
0704.01311	Colliding Branes and Formation of Spacetime Singularities	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Andreas Tziolas, Anzhong Wang	 Abstract: We construct a class of analytic solutions with two free parameters to the five-dimensional Einstein field equations, which represents the collision of two timelike 3-branes. We study the local and global properties of the spacetime, and find that spacelike singularities generically develop after the collision, due to the mutual focus of the two branes. Non-singular spacetime can be constructed only in the case where both of the two branes violate the energy conditions. 
0704.01312	Hitting probabilities for systems of non-linear stochastic heat  equations with multiplicative noise	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Robert C. Dalang, Davar Khoshnevisan, Eulalia Nualart	 Abstract: We consider a system of d non-linear stochastic heat equations in spatial dimension 1 driven by d-dimensional space-time white noise. The non-linearities appear both as additive drift terms and as multipliers of the noise. Using techniques of Malliavin calculus, we establish upper and lower bounds on the one-point density of the solution u(t,x), and upper bounds of Gaussian-type on the two-point density of (u(s,y),u(t,x)). In particular, this estimate quantifies how this density degenerates as (s,y) converges to (t,x). From these results, we deduce upper and lower bounds on hitting probabilities of the process {u(t,x)}_{t \in \mathbb{R}_+, x \in [0,1]}, in terms of respectively Hausdorff measure and Newtonian capacity. These estimates make it possible to show that points are polar when d >6 and are not polar when d<6. We also show that the Hausdorff dimension of the range of the process is 6 when d>6, and give analogous results for the processes t \mapsto u(t,x) and x \mapsto u(t,x). Finally, we obtain the values of the Hausdorff dimensions of the level sets of these processes. 
0704.01313	Mutant knots and intersection graphs	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:S.V.Chmutov, S.K.Lando	 Abstract: We prove that if a finite order knot invariant does not distinguish mutant knots, then the corresponding weight system depends on the intersection graph of a chord diagram rather than on the diagram itself. The converse statement is easy and well known. We discuss relationship between our results and certain Lie algebra weight systems. 
0704.01314	Acoustic resonances in microfluidic chips: full-image micro-PIV  experiments and numerical simulations	Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)	Authors:S. Melker Sundin, Thomas Glasdam Jensen, Henrik Bruus, Jorg P. Kutter	 Abstract: We show that full-image micro-PIV analysis in combination with images of transient particle motion is a powerful tool for experimental studies of acoustic radiation forces and acoustic streaming in microfluidic chambers under piezo-actuation in the MHz range. The measured steady-state motion of both large 5 um and small 1 um particles can be understood in terms of the acoustic eigenmodes or standing ultra-sound waves in the given experimental microsystems. This interpretation is supported by numerical solutions of the corresponding acoustic wave equation. 
0704.01315	Observations towards early-type stars in the ESO-POP survey: II --  searches for intermediate and high velocity clouds	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. V. Smoker, I. Hunter, P. M. W. Kalberla, F. P. Keenan, R. Morras, R. Hanuschik, H. M. A. Thompson, D. Silva, E. Bajaja, W. G. L. Poppel, M. Arnal	 Abstract: We present CaII K and TiII optical spectra of early-type stars taken mainly from the UVES Paranal Observatory Project, plus HI 21-cm spectra from the Vila-Elisa and Leiden-Dwingeloo surveys, which are employed to obtain distances to intermediate and high velocity clouds. HI emission at a velocity of -117 km/s towards the sightline HD 30677 with NHI=1.7x10^19 cm-2 has no corresponding CaII K absorption, which has a signal-to-noise (S/N) ratio of 610. The star has a spectroscopically determined distance of 2.7-kpc, and hence sets this as a firm lower distance limit towards Anti-Centre cloud ACII. Towards another sightline (HD 46185), HI at +122 km/s and NHI=1.2x10^19 cm-2 is seen. The CaII K spectrum has a S/N = 780, although no absorption is observed at the cloud velocity. This similarly places a firm lower distance limit of 2.9-kpc towards this parcel of gas that may be an intermediate velocity cloud. The lack of intermediate velocity (IV) CaII K absorption towards HD 196426 at a S/N = 500 reinforces a lower distance limit of 700-pc towards this part of Complex gp, where NHI is 1.1x10^19 cm-2 and velocity is +78 km/s. Additionally, no IV CaII K is seen in absorption in the spectrum of HD 19445, which is strong in HI with NHI=8x10^19 cm-2 at -42 km/s, placing a firm although uninteresting lower distance limit of 39-pc to this part of IV South. Finally, no HV CaII K absorption is seen towards HD 115363 at a S/N = 410, placing a lower distance of 3.2-kpc towards the HVC gas at velocity of +224 km/s and NHI=5.2x10^19 cm-2. This gas is in the same region of the sky as complex WE (Wakker 2001), but at higher velocities. The non-detection of CaII K absorption sets a lower distance of 3.2-kpc towards the HVC, which is unsurprising if this feature is indeed related to the Magellanic System. 
0704.01316	Physisorption of Nucleobases on Graphene	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:S. Gowtham, Ralph H. Scheicher, Rajeev Ahuja, Ravindra Pandey, Shashi P. Karna	 Abstract: We report the results of our first-principles investigation on the interaction of the nucleobases adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G), thymine (T), and uracil (U) with graphene, carried out within the density functional theory framework, with additional calculations utilizing Hartree--Fock plus second-order Moeller-Plesset perturbation theory. The calculated binding energy of the nucleobases shows the following hierarchy: G > T ~ C ~ A > U, with the equilibrium configuration being very similar for all five of them. Our results clearly demonstrate that the nucleobases exhibit significantly different interaction strengths when physisorbed on graphene. The stabilizing factor in the interaction between the base molecule and graphene sheet is dominated by the molecular polarizability that allows a weakly attractive dispersion force to be induced between them. The present study represents a significant step towards a first-principles understanding of how the base sequence of DNA can affect its interaction with carbon nanotubes, as observed experimentally. 
0704.01317	Low Density Lattice Codes	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Naftali Sommer, Meir Feder, Ofir Shalvi	 Abstract: Low density lattice codes (LDLC) are novel lattice codes that can be decoded efficiently and approach the capacity of the additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN) channel. In LDLC a codeword x is generated directly at the n-dimensional Euclidean space as a linear transformation of a corresponding integer message vector b, i.e., x = Gb, where H, the inverse of G, is restricted to be sparse. The fact that H is sparse is utilized to develop a linear-time iterative decoding scheme which attains, as demonstrated by simulations, good error performance within ~0.5dB from capacity at block length of n = 100,000 symbols. The paper also discusses convergence results and implementation considerations. 
0704.01318	The Haunted Halos of Andromeda and Triangulum: A panorama of galaxy  formation in action	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. Ibata, N. F. Martin, M. Irwin, S. Chapman, A. M. N. Ferguson, G. F. Lewis, A. W. McConnachie	 Abstract: We present a deep photometric survey of M31, conducted with the CFHT and INT, covering the inner 50 kpc of the galaxy, the Southern quadrant out to 150 kpc, and extending to M33. This is the first systematic panoramic study of this very outermost region of galaxies. We detect several streams and other large-scale structures, and two new dwarf galaxies: And XV and XVI. The discovery of substructure on the minor axis, together with the fact that the light profile between 0.5 < R < 1.3 follows the exponential ``extended disk'', is particularly important in shedding light on the mixed and sometimes conflicting results reported in previous studies. Underlying the substructures lies a faint, metal-poor, smooth and extremely extended halo, reaching out to at least 150 kpc. The smooth halo component in M31 has a profile that can be fit with a Hernquist model of immense scale radius ~55 kpc, almost a factor of 4 larger than theoretical predictions. Alternatively a power-law with exponent -1.91 +/- 0.11 can be fit to the profile. The total luminosity of this structure is similar to that of the halo of the Milky Way. This vast, smooth, underlying halo is reminiscent of a classical monolithic model and completely unexpected from modern galaxy formation models. M33 is also found to have an extended metal-poor halo component, which can be fit with a Hernquist model also of scale radius ~55 kpc. These extended slowly-decreasing halos will provide a challenge and strong constraints for further modeling. [Abridged] 
0704.01319	Using conceptual metaphor and functional grammar to explore how language  used in physics affects student learning	Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)	Authors:David T. Brookes, Eugenia Etkina	 Abstract: This paper introduces a theory about the role of language in learning physics. The theory is developed in the context of physics students' and physicists' talking and writing about the subject of quantum mechanics. We found that physicists' language encodes different varieties of analogical models through the use of grammar and conceptual metaphor. We hypothesize that students categorize concepts into ontological categories based on the grammatical structure of physicists' language. We also hypothesize that students over-extend and misapply conceptual metaphors in physicists' speech and writing. Using our theory, we will show how, in some cases, we can explain student difficulties in quantum mechanics as difficulties with language. 
0704.01320	Supersymmetry versus Gauge Symmetry on the Heterotic Landscape	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Keith R. Dienes, Michael Lennek, David Sénéchal, Vaibhav Wasnik	 Abstract: One of the goals of the landscape program in string theory is to extract information about the space of string vacua in the form of statistical correlations between phenomenological features that are otherwise uncorrelated in field theory. Such correlations would thus represent predictions of string theory that hold independently of a vacuum-selection principle. In this paper, we study statistical correlations between two features which are likely to be central to any potential description of nature at high energy scales: gauge symmetries and spacetime supersymmetry. We analyze correlations between these two kinds of symmetry within the context of perturbative heterotic string vacua, and find a number of striking features. We find, for example, that the degree of spacetime supersymmetry is strongly correlated with the probabilities of realizing certain gauge groups, with unbroken supersymmetry at the string scale tending to favor gauge-group factors with larger rank. We also find that nearly half of the heterotic landscape is non-supersymmetric and yet tachyon-free at tree level; indeed, less than a quarter of the tree-level heterotic landscape exhibits any supersymmetry at all at the string scale. 
0704.01321	Reversed flow at low frequencies in a microfabricated AC electrokinetic  pump	Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)	Authors:Misha Marie Gregersen, Laurits H. Olesen, Anders Brask, Mikkel Fougt Hansen, Henrik Bruus	 Abstract: Microfluidic chips have been fabricated to study electrokinetic pumping generated by a low voltage AC signal applied to an asymmetric electrode array. A measurement procedure has been established and followed carefully resulting in a high degree of reproducibility of the measurements. Depending on the ionic concentration as well as the amplitude of the applied voltage, the observed direction of the DC flow component is either forward or reverse. The impedance spectrum has been thoroughly measured and analyzed in terms of an equivalent circuit diagram. Our observations agree qualitatively, but not quantitatively, with theoretical models published in the literature. 
0704.01322	Energy of 4-Dimensional Black Hole, etc	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Dmitriy Palatnik	 Abstract: In this letter I suggest possible redefinition of mass density, not depending on speed of the mass element, which leads to a more simple stress-energy for an object. I calculate energy of black hole. 
0704.01323	Multi-Higgs U(1) Lattice Gauge Theory in Three Dimensions	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Tomoyoshi Ono, Ikuo Ichinose, Tetsuo Matsui	 Abstract: We study the three-dimensional compact U(1) lattice gauge theory with $N$ Higgs fields numerically. This model is relevant to multi-component superconductors, antiferromagnetic spin systems in easy plane, inflational cosmology, etc. For N=2, the system has a second-order phase transition line $\tilde{c}_1(c_2)$ in the $c_2$(gauge coupling)$-c_1$(Higgs coupling) plane, which separates the confinement phase and the Higgs phase. For N=3, the critical line is separated into two parts; one for $c_2 \alt 2.25$ with first-order transitions, and the other for $c_2 \agt 2.25$ with second-order transitions. 
0704.01324	Identifying Dark Matter Burners in the Galactic center	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Igor V. Moskalenko (Stanford), Lawrence L. Wai (SLAC)	 Abstract: If the supermassive black hole (SMBH) at the center of our Galaxy grew adiabatically, then a dense "spike" of dark matter is expected to have formed around it. Assuming that dark matter is composed primarily of weakly interacting massive particles (WIMPs), a star orbiting close enough to the SMBH can capture WIMPs at an extremely high rate. The stellar luminosity due to annihilation of captured WIMPs in the stellar core may be comparable to or even exceed the luminosity of the star due to thermonuclear burning. The model thus predicts the existence of unusual stars, i.e. "WIMP burners", in the vicinity of an adiabatically grown SMBH. We find that the most efficient WIMP burners are stars with degenerate electron cores, e.g. white dwarfs (WD) or degenerate cores with envelopes. If found, such stars would provide evidence for the existence of particle dark matter and could possibly be used to establish its density profile. In our previous paper we computed the luminosity from WIMP burning for a range of dark matter spike density profiles, degenerate core masses, and distances from the SMBH. Here we compare our results with the observed stars closest to the Galactic center and find that they could be consistent with WIMP burners in the form of degenerate cores with envelopes. We also cross-check the WIMP burner hypothesis with the EGRET observed flux of gamma-rays from the Galactic center, which imposes a constraint on the dark matter spike density profile and annihilation cross-section. We find that the EGRET data is consistent with the WIMP burner hypothesis. New high precision measurements by GLAST will confirm or set stringent limits on a dark matter spike at the Galactic center, which will in turn support or set stringent limits on the existence of WIMP burners at the Galactic center. 
0704.01325	Instabilities in the time-dependent neutrino disc in Gamma-Ray Bursts	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Agnieszka Janiuk, Ye-Fei Yuan, Rosalba Perna, Tiziana di Matteo	 Abstract: We investigate the properties and evolution of accretion tori formed after the coalescence of two compact objects. At these extreme densities and temperatures, the accreting torus is cooled mainly by neutrino emission produced primarily by electron and positron capture on nucleons (beta reactions). We solve for the disc structure and its time evolution by introducing a detailed treatment of the equation of state which includes photodisintegration of helium, the condition of beta-equilibrium, and neutrino opacities. We self-consistently calculate the chemical equilibrium in the gas consisting of helium, free protons, neutrons and electron-positron pairs and compute the chemical potentials of the species, as well as the electron fraction throughout the disc. We find that, for sufficiently large accretion rates (> 10 solar masses per second), the inner regions of the disk become opaque and develop a viscous and thermal instability. The identification of this instability might be relevant for GRB observations. 
0704.01326	Complete integrable systems with unconfined singularities	Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)	Authors:Victor Manosa	 Abstract: We prove that any globally periodic rational discrete system in K^k(where K denotes either R or C), has unconfined singularities, zero algebraic entropy and it is complete integrable (that is, it has as many functionally independent first integrals as the dimension of the phase space). In fact, for some of these systems the unconfined singularities are the key to obtain first integrals using the Darboux-type method of integrability. 
0704.01327	On the largest prime factor of the Mersenne numbers	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Kevin Ford, Florian Luca, Igor E. Shparlinski	 Abstract: Let P(k) be the largest prime factor of the positive integer k. In this paper, we prove that the series $\sum_{n\ge 1}\frac{(\log n)^a}{P(2^n-1)}$ is convergent for each constant a<1/2, which gives a more precise form of a result of C. L. Stewart from 1977. 
0704.01328	Developing the Galactic diffuse emission model for the GLAST Large Area  Telescope	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Igor V. Moskalenko (Stanford), Andrew W. Strong (MPE), Seth W. Digel (SLAC), Troy A. Porter (UCSC)	 Abstract: Diffuse emission is produced in energetic cosmic ray (CR) interactions, mainly protons and electrons, with the interstellar gas and radiation field and contains the information about particle spectra in distant regions of the Galaxy. It may also contain information about exotic processes such as dark matter annihilation, black hole evaporation etc. A model of the diffuse emission is important for determination of the source positions and spectra. Calculation of the Galactic diffuse continuum gamma-ray emission requires a model for CR propagation as the first step. Such a model is based on theory of particle transport in the interstellar medium as well as on many kinds of data provided by different experiments in Astrophysics and Particle and Nuclear Physics. Such data include: secondary particle and isotopic production cross sections, total interaction nuclear cross sections and lifetimes of radioactive species, gas mass calibrations and gas distribution in the Galaxy (H_2, H I, H II), interstellar radiation field, CR source distribution and particle spectra at the sources, magnetic field, energy losses, gamma-ray and synchrotron production mechanisms, and many other issues. We are continuously improving the GALPROP model and the code to keep up with a flow of new data. Improvement in any field may affect the Galactic diffuse continuum gamma-ray emission model used as a background model by the GLAST LAT instrument. Here we report about the latest improvements of the GALPROP and the diffuse emission model. 
0704.01329	Prompt Emission of High Energy Photons from Gamma Ray Bursts	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nayantara Gupta, Bing Zhang	 Abstract: Within the internal shock scenario we consider different mechanisms of high energy ($>1$ MeV) photon production inside a Gamma Ray Burst (GRB) fireball and derive the expected high energy photon spectra from individual GRBs during the prompt phase. The photon spectra of leptonic and hadronic origins are compared within different sets of parameter regimes. Our results suggest that the high energy emission is dominated by the leptonic component if fraction of shock energy carried by electrons is not very small (e.g. $\epsilon_e > 10^{-3}$). For very small values of $\epsilon_e$ the hadronic emission component could be comparable to or even exceed the leptonic component in the GeV-TeV regime. However, in this case a much larger energy budget of the fireball is required to account for the same level of the observed sub-MeV spectrum. The fireballs are therefore extremely inefficient in radiation. For a canonical fireball bulk Lorentz factor (e.g. $\Gamma=400$), emissions above $\sim 10$ GeV are attenuated by two-photon pair production processes. For a fireball with an even higher Lorentz factor, the cutoff energy is higher, and emissions of 10 TeV - PeV due to $\pi^0$-decay can also escape from the internal shocks. The flux level is however too low to be detected by current TeV detectors, and these photons also suffer attenuation by external soft photons. 
0704.01330	On the classification of Floer-type theories	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Nadya Shirokova	 Abstract: In this paper we outline a program for the classification of Floer-type theories, (or defining invariants of finite type for families). We consider Khovanov complexes as a local system on the space of knots introduced by V. Vassiliev and construct the wall-crossing morphism. We extend this system to the singular locus by the cone of this morphism and introduce the definition of the local system of finite type. This program can be further generalized to the manifolds of dimension 3 and 4. 
0704.01331	Siegel's theorem for Drinfeld modules	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Dragos Ghioca, Thomas J. Tucker	 Abstract: We prove an analog of Siegel's theorem for integral points in the context of Drinfeld modules. The result holds for finitely generated submodules of the additive group over a function field of transcendence dimension 1. 
0704.01332	On the Exponential Decay of the n-point Correlation Functions and the  Analyticity of the Pressure	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Assane Lo	 Abstract: The goal of this paper is to provide estimates leading to a direct proof of the exponential decay of the n-point correlation functions for certain unbounded models of Kac type. The methods are based on estimating higher order derivatives of the solution of the Witten Laplacian equation on one forms associated with the hamiltonian of the system. We also provide a formula for the Taylor coefficients of the pressure that is suitable for a direct proof the analyticity. 
0704.01333	A dynamical version of the Mordell-Lang conjecture for the additive  group	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Dragos Ghioca, Thomas J. Tucker	 Abstract: We prove a dynamical version of the Mordell-Lang conjecture in the context of Drinfeld modules. We use analytic methods similar to the ones employed by Skolem, Chabauty, and Coleman for studying diophantine equations. 
0704.01334	Fabrication of Analog Electronics for Serial Readout of Silicon Strip  Sensors	Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)	Authors:E. Won, J. H. Choi, H. Ha, H. J. Hyun, H. J. Kim, H. Park	 Abstract: A set of analog electronics boards for serial readout of silicon strip sensors was fabricated. A commercially available amplifier is mounted on a homemade hybrid board in order to receive analog signals from silicon strip sensors. Also, another homemade circuit board is fabricated in order to translate amplifier control signals into a suitable format and to provide bias voltage to the amplifier as well as to the silicon sensors. We discuss technical details of the fabrication process and performance of the circuit boards we developed. 
0704.01335	On the reductive Borel-Serre compactification: $L^p$-cohomology of  arithmetic groups (for large $p$)	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Steven Zucker	 Abstract: The $L^2$-cohomology of a locally symmetric variety is known to have the topological interpretation as the intersection homology of its Baily-Borel Satake compactification. In this article, we observe that even without the Hermitian hypothesis, the $L^p$-cohomology of an arithmetic quotient, for $p$ finite and sufficiently large, is isomorphic to the ordinary cohomology of its reductive Borel-Serre compactification. We use this to generalize a theorem of Mumford concerning homogeneous vector bundles, their invariant Chern forms and the canonical extensions of the bundles; here, though, we are referring to canonical extensions to the reductive Borel-Serre compactification of any arithmetic quotient. To achieve that, we give a systematic discussion of vector bundles and Chern classes on stratified 
0704.01336	The $^4$He total photo-absorption cross section with two- plus  three-nucleon interactions from chiral effective field theory	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:S. Quaglioni, P. Navratil	 Abstract: The total photo-absorption cross section of $^4$He is evaluated microscopically using two- (NN) and three-nucleon (NNN) interactions based upon chiral effective field theory ($\chi$EFT). The calculation is performed using the Lorentz integral transform method along with the {\em ab initio} no-core shell model approach. An important feature of the present study is the consistency of the NN and NNN interactions and also, through the Siegert theorem, of the two- and three-body current operators. This is due to the application of the $\chi$EFT framework. The inclusion of the NNN interaction produces a suppression of the low-energy peak and enhancement of the high-energy tail of the cross section. We compare to calculations obtained using other interactions and to representative experiments. The rather confused experimental situation in the giant resonance region prevents discrimination among different interaction models. 
0704.01337	Comment on "Mass and Width of the Lowest Resonance in QCD"	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:F. Kleefeld (Nucl. Phys. Inst., Rez near Prague / CFIF, Lisbon)	 Abstract: I. Caprini's, G. Colangelo's, and H. Leutwyler's (CCL) article "Mass and Width of the Lowest Resonance in QCD", Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 132001 (2006) [hep-ph/0512364], is critically reviewed. The present comment is devoted to complement a recent experimental discussion (D.V. Bugg, J. Phys. G 34, 151 (2007) [hep-ph/0608081]) of short-comings in the CCL analysis, by presenting theoretical arguments pointing at a serious flaw in the theoretical formalism used by CCL, and also at the unlikeliness of their tiny error bars in the sigma-meson mass and width. The criticism made in the comment applies analogously to the analysis on the kappa-meson mass performed in the article "The K0*(800) scalar resonance from Roy-Steiner representations of pi K scattering" published as S. Descotes-Genon and B. Moussallam, Eur. Phys. J. C 48, 553 (2006) [hep-ph/0607133]. 
0704.01338	True and Apparent Scaling: The Proximity of the Markov-Switching  Multifractal Model to Long-Range Dependence	Statistical Finance (q-fin.ST)	Authors:Ruipeng Liu, T. Di Matteo, Thomas Lux	 Abstract: In this paper, we consider daily financial data of a collection of different stock market indices, exchange rates, and interest rates, and we analyze their multi-scaling properties by estimating a simple specification of the Markov-switching multifractal model (MSM). In order to see how well the estimated models capture the temporal dependence of the data, we estimate and compare the scaling exponents $H(q)$ (for $q = 1, 2$) for both empirical data and simulated data of the estimated MSM models. In most cases the multifractal model appears to generate `apparent' long memory in agreement with the empirical scaling laws. 
0704.01339	SkyMapper and the Southern Sky Survey - a resource for the southern sky	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S.C. Keller, B.P. Schmidt, M.S Bessell	 Abstract: SkyMapper is amongst the first of a new generation of dedicated, wide-field survey telescopes. The 1.3m SkyMapper telescope features a 5.7 square degree field-of-view Cassegrain imager and will see first light in late 2007. The primary goal of the facility is to conduct the Southern Sky Survey a six colour, six epoch survey of the southern sky. The survey will provide photometry for objects between 8th and 23rd magnitude with global photometric accuracy of 0.03 magnitudes and astrometry to 50 mas. This will represent a valuable scientific resource for the southern sky and in addition provide a basis for photometric and astrometric calibration of imaging data. 
0704.01340	Tautological classes on moduli spaces of curves with linear series and a  push-forward formula when $ρ=0$	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Deepak Khosla	 Abstract: We define tautological Chow classes on the moduli space of curves with linear series. In the case where the forgetful morphism to the moduli space of curves has relative dimension zero, we describe the images of these classes in the Chow group of Mgbar. As an application, we compute the (virtual) slopes of several different classes of divisors on Mgbar. 
0704.01341	Equivariant symmetric bilinear torsions	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Guangxiang Su	 Abstract: We extend the main result in the previous paper of Zhang and the author relating the Milnor-Turaev torsion with the complex valued analytic torsion to the equivariant case. 
0704.01342	Two-pion-exchange contributions to the pp\to ppπ^0 reaction	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Y. Kim, T. Sato, F. Myhrer, K. Kubodera	 Abstract: Our previous study of the near-threshold pp\to pp\pi^0 reaction based on a hybrid nuclear effective field theory is further elaborated by examining the momentum dependence of the relevant transition operators. We show that the two-pion exchange diagrams give much larger contributions than the one-pion exchange diagram, even though the former is of higher order in the Weinberg counting scheme. The relation between our results and an alternative counting scheme, the momentum counting scheme, is also discussed. 
0704.01343	Hardy and Rellich type inequalities with remainders for Baouendi-Grushin  vector fields	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Ismail Kombe	 Abstract: In this paper we study Hardy and Rellich type inequalities for Baouendi-Grushin vector fields : $\nabla_{\gamma}=(\nabla_x, |x|^{2\gamma}\nabla_y)$ where $\gamma>0$, $\nabla_x$ and $\nabla_y$ are usual gradient operators in the variables $x\in \mathbb{R}^m$ and $y\in\mathbb{R}^k$, respectively. In the first part of the paper, we prove some weighted Hardy type inequalities with remainder terms. In the second part, we prove two versions of weighted Rellich type inequality on the whole space. We find sharp constants for these inequalities. We also obtain their improved versions for bounded domains. 
0704.01344	Resummation Effects in the Search of SM Higgs Boson at Hadron Colliders	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Qing-Hong Cao, Chuan-Ren Chen	 Abstract: We examine the soft-gluon resummation effects, including the exact spin correlations among the final state particles, in the search of the Standard Model Higgs boson, via the process $gg\to H\to WW/ZZ \to 4 leptons, at the Tevatron and the LHC. A comparison between the resummation and the Next-to-Leading order (NLO) calculation is performed after imposing various kinematics cuts suggested in the literature for the Higgs boson search. For the $H\to ZZ$ mode, the resummation effects increase the acceptance of the signal events by about 25%, as compared to the NLO prediction, and dramatically alter various kinematics distributions of the final state leptons. For the $H\to WW$ mode, the acceptance rates of the signal events predicted by the resummation and NLO calculations are almost the same, but some of the predicted kinematical distributions are quite different. Thus, to precisely determine the properties of the Higgs boson at hadron colliders, the soft-gluon resummation effects have to be taken into account. 
0704.01345	Triquark structure and isospin symmetry breaking in exotic Ds mesons	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:S. Yasui, M. Oka	 Abstract: The color anti-triplet triquark $q\bar{q}\bar{q}$ is considered as a compact component in the tetraquark structure $cq\bar{q}\bar{q}$ of exotic $D_{s}$ mesons. We discuss the mass spectrum and the flavor mixing of the triquarks by using the instanton induced interaction and the one-gluon exchange potentials. As a characteristic property of the triquark, we investigate the isospin violation. It is shown that the flavor $\bar{\bf 3}$ (isosinglet) and $\bf 6$ (isotriplet) states may be strongly mixed and then are identified with $D_{s}(2632)$. 
0704.01346	Prediction of future fifteen solar cycles	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K. M. Hiremath	 Abstract: In the previous study (Hiremath 2006a), the solar cycle is modeled as a forced and damped harmonic oscillator and from all the 22 cycles (1755-1996), long-term amplitudes, frequencies, phases and decay factor are obtained. Using these physical parameters of the previous 22 solar cycles and by an {\em autoregressive model}, we predict the amplitude and period of the future fifteen solar cycles. Predicted amplitude of the present solar cycle (23) matches very well with the observations. The period of the present cycle is found to be 11.73 years. With these encouraging results, we also predict the profiles of future 15 solar cycles. Important predictions are : (i) the period and amplitude of the cycle 24 are 9.34 years and 110 ($\pm 11$), (ii) the period and amplitude of the cycle 25 are 12.49 years and 110 ($\pm$ 11), (iii) during the cycles 26 (2030-2042 AD), 27 (2042-2054 AD), 34 (2118-2127 AD), 37 (2152-2163 AD) and 38 (2163-2176 AD), the sun might experience a very high sunspot activity, (iv) the sun might also experience a very low (around 60) sunspot activity during cycle 31 (2089-2100 AD) and, (v) length of the solar cycles vary from 8.65 yrs for the cycle 33 to maximum of 13.07 yrs for the cycle 35. 
0704.01347	Comparaison entre cohomologie cristalline et cohomologie étale  $p$-adique sur certaines variétés de Shimura	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Sandra Rozensztajn (IRMA)	 Abstract: Let $X$ be an integral model at a prime $p$ of a Shimura variety of PEL type having good reduction, associated to a reductive group $G$. To $\mathbb{Z}_p$ reprsententations of the group $G$ can be associated two kinds of sheaves : crystals on the special fiber of $X$, and locally constant \'etale sheaves on the generic fiber. We establish a comparison between the cohomology of these two kinds of sheaves. 
0704.01348	Large portfolio losses: A dynamic contagion model	Risk Management (q-fin.RM)	Authors:Paolo Dai Pra, Wolfgang J. Runggaldier, Elena Sartori, Marco Tolotti	 Abstract: Using particle system methodologies we study the propagation of financial distress in a network of firms facing credit risk. We investigate the phenomenon of a credit crisis and quantify the losses that a bank may suffer in a large credit portfolio. Applying a large deviation principle we compute the limiting distributions of the system and determine the time evolution of the credit quality indicators of the firms, deriving moreover the dynamics of a global financial health indicator. We finally describe a suitable version of the "Central Limit Theorem" useful to study large portfolio losses. Simulation results are provided as well as applications to portfolio loss distribution analysis. 
0704.01349	Carleman estimates and unique continuation for second order parabolic  equations with nonsmooth coefficients	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Herbert Koch, Daniel Tataru	 Abstract: This work is devoted to the strong unique continuation problem for second order parabolic equations with nonsmooth coefficients. Introduction and bibliography have been revised. 
0704.01350	Specialized computer algebra system for application in general  relativity	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:S. Tertychniy	 Abstract: A brief characteristic of the specialized computer algebra system GRG_EC intended for symbolic computations in the field of general relativity is given. 
0704.01351	Rigidly rotating dust solutions depending upon harmonic functions	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Stefano Viaggiu	 Abstract: We write down the relevant field equations for a stationary axially symmetric rigidly rotating dust source in such a way that the general solution depends upon the solution of an elliptic equation and upon harmonic functions. Starting with the dipole Bonnor solution, we built an asymptotically flat solution with two curvature singularities on the rotational axis with diverging mass. Apart from the two point singularities on the axis, the metric is regular everywhere. Finally, we study a non-asymptotically flat solution with NUT charge and a massless ring singularity, but with a well-defined mass-energy expression. 
0704.01352	The Green function estimates for strongly elliptic systems of second  order	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Steve Hofmann, Seick Kim	 Abstract: We establish existence and pointwise estimates of fundamental solutions and Green's matrices for divergence form, second order strongly elliptic systems in a domain $\Omega \subseteq \mathbb{R}^n$, $n \geq 3$, under the assumption that solutions of the system satisfy De Giorgi-Nash type local H\"{o}lder continuity estimates. In particular, our results apply to perturbations of diagonal systems, and thus especially to complex perturbations of a single real equation. 
0704.01353	Supporting Knowledge and Expertise Finding within Australia's Defence  Science and Technology Organisation	Other Computer Science (cs.OH)	Authors:Paul Prekop	 Abstract: This paper reports on work aimed at supporting knowledge and expertise finding within a large Research and Development (R&D) organisation. The paper first discusses the nature of knowledge important to R&D organisations and presents a prototype information system developed to support knowledge and expertise finding. The paper then discusses a trial of the system within an R&D organisation, the implications and limitations of the trial, and discusses future research questions. 
0704.01354	Reply to Comment on ``An Improved Experimental Limit on the Electric  Dipole Moment of the Neutron''	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:C.A. Baker, D.D. Doyle, P. Geltenbort, K. Green, M.G.D. van der Grinten, P.G. Harris, P. Iaydjiev, S.N. Ivanov, D.J.R. May, J.M. Pendlebury, J.D. Richardson, D. Shiers, K.F. Smith	 Abstract: The Authors reply to the Comment of Golub and Lamoreaux. The experimental limit on the neutron electric dipole moment remains unchanged from that previously announced. 
0704.01355	Lowest Landau Level of Relativistic Field Theories in a Strong  Background Field	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Xavier Calmet, Martin Kober	 Abstract: We consider gauge theories in a strong external magnetic like field. This situation can appear either in conventional four-dimensional theories, but also naturally in extra-dimensional theories and especially in brane world models. We show that in the lowest Landau level approximation, some of the coordinates become non-commutative. We find physical reasons to formal problems with non-commutative gauge theories such as the issue with SU(N) gauge symmetries. Our construction is applied to a minimal extension of the standard model. It is shown that the Higgs sector might be non-commutative whereas the remaining sectors of the standard model remain commutative. Signatures of this model at the LHC are discussed. We then discuss an application to a dark matter sector coupled to the Higgs sector of the standard model and show that here again, dark matter could be non-commutative, the standard model fields remaining commutative. 
0704.01356	Mechanical and dielectric relaxation spectra in seven highly viscous  glass formers	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:U. Buchenau	 Abstract: Published dielectric and shear data of six molecular glass formers and one polymer are evaluated in terms of a spectrum of thermally activated processes, with the same barrier density for the retardation spectrum of shear and dielectrics. The viscosity, an independent parameter of the fit, seems to be related to the high-barrier cutoff time of the dielectric signal, in accordance with the idea of a renewal of the relaxing entities after this critical time. In the five cases where one can fit accurately, the temperature dependence of the high-barrier cutoff follows the shoving model. The Johari-Goldstein peaks, seen in four of our seven cases, are describable in terms of gaussians in the barrier density, superimposed on the high-frequency tail of the $\alpha$-process. Dielectric and shear measurements of the same substance find the same peak positions and widths of these gaussians, but in general a different weight. 
0704.01357	Computational and experimental imaging of Mn defects on GaAs (110)  cross-sectional surface	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:A. Stroppa, X. Duan, M. Peressi, D. Furlanetto, S. Modesti	 Abstract: We present a combined experimental and computational study of the (110) cross-sectional surface of Mn $\delta$-doped GaAs samples. We focus our study on three different selected Mn defect configurations not previously studied in details, namely surface interstitial Mn, isolated and in pairs, and substitutional Mn atoms on cationic sites (Mn$_{\rm Ga}$) in the first subsurface layer. The sensitivity of the STM images to the specific local environment allows to distinguish between Mn interstitials with nearest neighbor As atoms (Int$_{\rm As}$) rather than Ga atoms (Int$_{\rm Ga}$), and to identify the fingerprint of peculiar satellite features around subsurface substitutional Mn. The simulated STM maps for Int$_{\rm As}$, both isolated and in pairs, and Mn$_{\rm Ga}$ in the first subsurface layer are consistent with some experimental images hitherto not fully characterized. 
0704.01358	Distance preserving mappings from ternary vectors to permutations	Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)	Authors:Jyh-Shyan Lin, Jen-Chun Chang, Rong-Jaye Chen, Torleiv Kløve	 Abstract: Distance-preserving mappings (DPMs) are mappings from the set of all q-ary vectors of a fixed length to the set of permutations of the same or longer length such that every two distinct vectors are mapped to permutations with the same or even larger Hamming distance than that of the vectors. In this paper, we propose a construction of DPMs from ternary vectors. The constructed DPMs improve the lower bounds on the maximal size of permutation arrays. 
0704.01359	Hamiltonian Quantum Dynamics With Separability Constraints	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Nikola Buric	 Abstract: Schroedinger equation on a Hilbert space ${\cal H}$, represents a linear Hamiltonian dynamical system on the space of quantum pure states, the projective Hilbert space $P {\cal H}$. Separable states of a bipartite quantum system form a special submanifold of $P {\cal H}$. We analyze the Hamiltonian dynamics that corresponds to the quantum system constrained on the manifold of separable states, using as an important example the system of two interacting qubits. The constraints introduce nonlinearities which render the dynamics nontrivial. We show that the qualitative properties of the constrained dynamics clearly manifest the symmetry of the qubits system. In particular, if the quantum Hamilton's operator has not enough symmetry, the constrained dynamics is nonintegrable, and displays the typical features of a Hamiltonian dynamical system with mixed phase space. Possible physical realizations of the separability constraints are discussed. 
0704.01360	Planck Length and Cosmology	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Xavier Calmet	 Abstract: We show that an unification of quantum mechanics and general relativity implies that there is a fundamental length in Nature in the sense that no operational procedure would be able to measure distances shorter than the Planck length. Furthermore we give an explicit realization of an old proposal by Anderson and Finkelstein who argued that a fundamental length in nature implies unimodular gravity. Finally, using hand waving arguments we show that a minimal length might be related to the cosmological constant which, if this scenario is realized, is time dependent. 
0704.01361	A Dynamic Algorithm for Blind Separation of Convolutive Sound Mixtures	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Jie Liu, Jack Xin, Yingyong Qi	 Abstract: We study an efficient dynamic blind source separation algorithm of convolutive sound mixtures based on updating statistical information in the frequency domain, andminimizing the support of time domain demixing filters by a weighted least square method. The permutation and scaling indeterminacies of separation, and concatenations of signals in adjacent time frames are resolved with optimization of $l^1 \times l^\infty$ norm on cross-correlation coefficients at multiple time lags. The algorithm is a direct method without iterations, and is adaptive to the environment. Computations on recorded and synthetic mixtures of speech and music signals show excellent performance. 
0704.01362	Fast recursive filters for simulating nonlinear dynamic systems	Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)	Authors:J. H. van Hateren	 Abstract: A fast and accurate computational scheme for simulating nonlinear dynamic systems is presented. The scheme assumes that the system can be represented by a combination of components of only two different types: first-order low-pass filters and static nonlinearities. The parameters of these filters and nonlinearities may depend on system variables, and the topology of the system may be complex, including feedback. Several examples taken from neuroscience are given: phototransduction, photopigment bleaching, and spike generation according to the Hodgkin-Huxley equations. The scheme uses two slightly different forms of autoregressive filters, with an implicit delay of zero for feedforward control and an implicit delay of half a sample distance for feedback control. On a fairly complex model of the macaque retinal horizontal cell it computes, for a given level of accuracy, 1-2 orders of magnitude faster than 4th-order Runge-Kutta. The computational scheme has minimal memory requirements, and is also suited for computation on a stream processor, such as a GPU (Graphical Processing Unit). 
0704.01363	Spectra and symmetric eigentensors of the Lichnerowicz Laplacian on  $S^n$	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:M. Boucetta	 Abstract: We compute the eigenvalues with multiplicities of the Lichnerowicz Laplacian acting on the space of symmetric covariant tensor fields on the Euclidian sphere $S^n$. The spaces of symmetric eigentensors are explicitly given. 
0704.01364	CCD BV survey of 42 open clusters	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G. Maciejewski, A. Niedzielski	 Abstract: We present results of a photometric survey whose aim was to derive structural and astrophysical parameters for 42 open clusters. While our sample is definitively not representative of the total open cluster sample in the Galaxy, it does cover a wide range of cluster parameters and is uniform enough to allow for simple statistical considerations. BV wide-field CCD photometry was obtained for open clusters for which photometric, structural, and dynamical evolution parameters were determined. The limiting and core radii were determined by analyzing radial density profiles. The ages, reddenings, and distances were obtained from the solar metallicity isochrone fitting. The mass function was used to study the dynamical state of the systems, mass segregation effect and to estimate the total mass and number of cluster members. This study reports on the first determination of basic parameters for 11 out of 42 observed open clusters. The angular sizes for the majority of the observed clusters appear to be several times larger than the catalogue data indicate. The core and limiting cluster radii are correlated and the latter parameter is 3.2 times larger on average. The limiting radius increases with the cluster's mass, and both the limiting and core radii decrease in the course of dynamical evolution. For dynamically not advanced clusters, the mass function slope is similar to the universal IMF slope. For more evolved systems, the effect of evaporation of low-mass members is clearly visible. The initial mass segregation is present in all the observed young clusters, whereas the dynamical mass segregation appears in clusters older than about log(age)=8. Low-mass stars are deficient in the cores of clusters older than log(age)=8.5 and not younger than one relaxation time. 
0704.01365	Geometry and Dynamics of Quantum State Diffusion	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Nikola Buric	 Abstract: Riemannian metric on real 2n-dimensional space associated with the equation governing complex diffusion of pure states of an open quantum system is introduced and studied. Examples of a qubit under the influence of dephasing and thermal environments are used to show that the curvature of the diffusion metric is a good indicator of the properties of the environment dominated evolution and its stability. 
0704.01366	Investigation of transit-selected exoplanet candidates from the MACHO  survey	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. D. Huegelmeyer (1), S. Dreizler (1), D. Homeier (1), A. Reiners (1,2) ((1) Institut fuer Astrophysik, Universitaet Goettingen, Germany, (2) Hamburger Sternwarte, Universitaet Hamburg, Germany)	 Abstract: Context: Planets outside our solar system transiting their host star, i. e. those with an orbital inclination near 90 degree, are of special interest to derive physical properties of extrasolar planets. With the knowledge of the host star's physical parameters, the planetary radius can be determined. Combined with spectroscopic observations the mass and therefore the density can be derived from Doppler-measurements. Depending on the brightness of the host star, additional information, e. g. about the spin-orbit alignment between the host star and planetary orbit, can be obtained. Aims: The last few years have witnessed a growing success of transit surveys. Among other surveys, the MACHO project provided nine potential transiting planets, several of them with relatively bright parent stars. The photometric signature of a transit event is, however, insufficient to confirm the planetary nature of the faint companion. The aim of this paper therefore is a determination of the spectroscopic parameters of the host stars as well as a dynamical mass determination through Doppler-measurements. Methods: We have obtained follow-up high-resolution spectra for five stars selected from the MACHO sample, which are consistent with transits of low-luminosity objects. Radial velocities have been determined by means of cross-correlation with model spectra. The MACHO light curves have been compared to simulations based on the physical parameters of the system derived from the radial velocities and spectral analyses. Aims: We show that all transit light curves of the exoplanet candidates analysed in this work can be explained by eclipses of stellar objects, hence none of the five transiting objects is a planet. 
0704.01367	On families of rational curves in the Hilbert square of a surface (with  an Appendix by Edoardo Sernesi)	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Flaminio Flamini, Andreas Leopold Knutsen, Gianluca Pacienza, Edoardo Sernesi	 Abstract: Under natural hypotheses we give an upper bound on the dimension of families of singular curves with hyperelliptic normalizations on a surface S with p_g(S) >0 via the study of the associated families of rational curves in Hilb^2(S). We use this result to prove the existence of nodal curves of geometric genus 3 with hyperelliptic normalizations, on a general K3 surface, thus obtaining specific 2-dimensional families of rational curves in its Hilbert square. We describe two infinite series of examples of general, primitively polarized K3's such that their Hilbert squares contain a IP^2 or a threefold birational to a IP^1-bundle over a K3. We discuss some consequences on the Mori cone of the Hilbert square of a general K3. 
0704.01368	Anisotropy and Magnetic Field Effects on the Genuine Multipartite  Entanglement of Multi-Qubit Heisenberg {\it XY} Chains	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Chang Chi Kwong, Ye Yeo	 Abstract: It has been shown that, for the two-qubit Heisenberg XY model, anisotropy and magnetic field may together be used to produce entanglement for any finite temperature by adjusting the external magnetic field beyond some finite critical strength. This interesting result arises from an analysis employing the Wootters concurrence, a computable measure of entanglement for two-qubit states. Recently, Mintert {\em et al.} proposed generalizations of Wootters concurrence for multipartite states. These MKB concurrences possess a mathematical property that enables one to understand the origin of this characteristic behavior. Here, we first study the effect of anisotropy and magnetic field on the multipartite thermal entanglement of a four-qubit Heisenberg XY chain using the MKB concurrences. We show that this model exhibits characteristic behavior similar to that of the two-qubit model. In addition, we show that this can again be understood using the same mathematical property. Next, we show that the six-qubit Heisenberg XY chain possesses properties necessary for it to have the characteristic behavior too. Most importantly, it is possible to directly measure the multipartite MKB concurrences of pure states. This may provide an experimental verification of our conjecture that for a Heisenberg XY chain of any even number of qubits, it is always possible to obtain non-zero genuine multipartite entanglement at any finite temperature by applying a sufficiently large magnetic field. 
0704.01369	Double Helicity Asymmetry of Inclusive pi0 Production in Polarized pp  Collisions at sqrt(s)=62.4GeV	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:K. Aoki, for the PHENIX Collaboration	 Abstract: The proton spin structure is not understood yet and there has remained large uncertainty on Delta g, the gluon spin contribution to the proton. Double helicity asymmetry (A_LL) of pi0 production in polarized pp collisions is used to constrain Delta g. In this report, preliminary results of A_LL of pi0 in pp collisions at sqrt(s) = 62.4 GeV measured by PHENIX experiment in 2006 is presented. It can probe higer x region than the previously reported pi0 A_LL at sqrt(s) = 200 GeV thanks to the lower center of mass energy. 
0704.01370	Time dependence of joint entropy of oscillating quantum systems	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:O. Ozcan, E. Akturk, R. Sever	 Abstract: The time dependent entropy (or Leipnik's entropy) of harmonic and damped harmonic oscillators is extensively investigated by using time dependent wave function obtained by the Feynman path integral method. Our results for simple harmonic oscillator are in agrement with the literature. However, the joint entropy of damped harmonic oscillator shows remarkable discontinuity with time for certain values of damping factor. According to the results, the envelop of the joint entropy curve increases with time monotonically. This results is the general properties of the envelop of the joint entropy curve for quantum systems. 
0704.01371	Tight bound on coherent states quantum key distribution with heterodyne  detection	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Jerome Lodewyck, Philippe Grangier	 Abstract: We propose a new upper bound for the eavesdropper's information in the direct and reverse reconciliated coherent states quantum key distribution protocols with heterodyne detection. This bound is derived by maximizing the leaked information over the symplectic group of transformations that spans every physical Gaussian attack on individual pulses. We exhibit four different attacks that reach this bound, which shows that this bound is tight. Finally, we compare the secret key rate obtained with this new bound to the homodyne rate. 
0704.01372	Gaussian estimates for fundamental solutions of second order parabolic  systems with time-independent coefficients	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Seick Kim	 Abstract: Auscher, McIntosh and Tchamitchian studied the heat kernels of second order elliptic operators in divergence form with complex bounded measurable coefficients on $\mathbb{R}^n$. In particular, in the case when $n=2$ they obtained Gaussian upper bound estimates for the heat kernel without imposing further assumption on the coefficients. We study the fundamental solutions of the systems of second order parabolic equations in the divergence form with bounded, measurable, time-independent coefficients, and extend their results to the systems of parabolic equations. 
0704.01373	A Language-Based Approach for Improving the Robustness of Network  Application Protocol Implementations	Programming Languages (cs.PL)	Authors:Burgy Laurent (INRIA Futurs), Laurent Réveillère (INRIA Futurs), Julia Lawall (DIKU), Gilles Muller (INRIA Rennes)	 Abstract: The secure and robust functioning of a network relies on the defect-free implementation of network applications. As network protocols have become increasingly complex, however, hand-writing network message processing code has become increasingly error-prone. In this paper, we present a domain-specific language, Zebu, for describing protocol message formats and related processing constraints. From a Zebu specification, a compiler automatically generates stubs to be used by an application to parse network messages. Zebu is easy to use, as it builds on notations used in RFCs to describe protocol grammars. Zebu is also efficient, as the memory usage is tailored to application needs and message fragments can be specified to be processed on demand. Finally, Zebu-based applications are robust, as the Zebu compiler automatically checks specification consistency and generates parsing stubs that include validation of the message structure. Using a mutation analysis in the context of SIP and RTSP, we show that Zebu significantly improves application robustness. 
0704.01374	A Close Look at Star Formation around Active Galactic Nuclei	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. Davies, F. Mueller Sanchez, R. Genzel, L. Tacconi, E. Hicks, S. Friedrich, A. Sternberg	 Abstract: We analyse star formation in the nuclei of 9 Seyfert galaxies at spatial resolutions down to 0.085arcsec, corresponding to length scales of less than 10pc in some objects. Our data were taken mostly with the near infrared adaptive optics integral field spectrograph SINFONI. The stellar light profiles typically have size scales of a few tens of parsecs. In two cases there is unambiguous kinematic evidence for stellar disks on these scales. In the nuclear regions there appear to have been recent - but no longer active - starbursts in the last 10-300Myr. The stellar luminosity is less than a few percent of the AGN in the central 10pc, whereas on kiloparsec scales the luminosities are comparable. The surface stellar luminosity density follows a similar trend in all the objects, increasing steadily at smaller radii up to 10^{13}L_sun/kpc^2 in the central few parsecs, where the mass surface density exceeds 10^4M_sun/pc^2. The intense starbursts were probably Eddington limited and hence inevitably short-lived, implying that the starbursts occur in multiple short bursts. The data hint at a delay of 50--100Myr between the onset of star formation and subsequent fuelling of the black hole. We discuss whether this may be a consequence of the role that stellar ejecta could play in fuelling the black hole. While a significant mass is ejected by OB winds and supernovae, their high velocity means that very little of it can be accreted. On the other hand winds from AGB stars ultimately dominate the total mass loss, and they can also be accreted very efficiently because of their slow speeds. 
0704.01375	Decrease of entanglement by local operations in the Dür-Cirac method	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Yukihiro Ota, Motoyuki Yoshida, Ichiro Ohba	 Abstract: One cannot always obtain information about entanglement by the D\"ur-Cirac (DC) method. The impracticality is attributed to the decrease of entanglement by local operations in the DC method. We show that, even in 2--qubit systems, there exist states whose entangled property the DC method never evaluates. The class of such states in 2--qubit systems is completely characterized by the value of the fully entangled fraction. Actually, a state whose fully entangled fraction is less than or equal to 1/2 is always transformed into a separable state by local operations in the DC method, even if it has negative partial transposition. 
0704.01376	Compton-thick AGN and the Synthesis of the Cosmic X-ray Background: the  Suzaku Perspective	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. Gilli (INAF-OAB), A. Comastri (INAF-OAB), C. Vignali (Dip. Astronomia, UniBo), G. Hasinger (MPE)	 Abstract: We discuss the abundance of Compton-thick AGN as estimated by the most recent population synthesis models of the cosmic X-ray background. Only a small fraction of these elusive objects have been detected so far, in line with the model expectations. The advances expected by the broad band detectors on board Suzaku are briefly reviewed. 
0704.01377	Kibble-Zurek mechanism in a quenched ferromagnetic Bose-Einstein  condensate	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Hiroki Saito, Yuki Kawaguchi, Masahito Ueda	 Abstract: The spin vortices are shown to be created through the Kibble-Zurek (KZ) mechanism in a quantum phase transition of a spin-1 ferromagnetic Bose-Einstein condensate, when the applied magnetic field is quenched below a critical value. It is shown that the magnetic correlation functions have finite correlation lengths, and magnetizations at widely separated positions grow in random directions, resulting in spin vortices. We numerically confirm the scaling law that the winding number of spin vortices is proportional to the square root of the length of the closed path, and for slow quench, proportional to $\tau_{\rm Q}^{-1/6}$ with $\tau_{\rm Q}$ being the quench time. The relation between the spin conservation and the KZ mechanism is discussed. 
0704.01378	Triangulated categories without models	Algebraic Topology (math.AT)	Authors:Fernando Muro, Stefan Schwede, Neil Strickland	 Abstract: We exhibit examples of triangulated categories which are neither the stable category of a Frobenius category nor a full triangulated subcategory of the homotopy category of a stable model category. Even more drastically, our examples do not admit any non-trivial exact functors to or from these algebraic respectively topological triangulated categories. 
0704.01379	U-max-Statistics	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Wei Lao, Michael Mayer	 Abstract: In 1948, W. Hoeffding introduced a large class of unbiased estimators called U-statistics, defined as the average value of a real-valued k-variate function h calculated at all possible sets of k points from a random sample. In the present paper we investigate the corresponding extreme value analogue, which we shall call U-max-statistics. We are concerned with the behavior of the largest value of such function h instead of its average. Examples of U-max-statistics are the diameter or the largest scalar product within a random sample. U-max-statistics of higher degrees are given by triameters and other metric invariants. 
0704.01380	Dependence of exciton transition energy of single-walled carbon  nanotubes on surrounding dielectric materials	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Yuhei Miyauchi, Riichiro Saito, Kentaro Sato, Yutaka Ohno, Shinya Iwasaki, Takashi Mizutani, Jie Jiang, Shigeo Maruyama	 Abstract: We theoretically investigate the dependence of exciton transition energies on dielectric constant of surrounding materials. We make a simple model for the relation between dielectric constant of environment and a static dielectric constant describing the effects of electrons in core states, $\sigma$ bonds and surrounding materials. Although the model is very simple, calculated results well reproduce experimental transition energy dependence on dielectric constant of various surrounding materials. 
0704.01381	Mpemba effect and phase transitions in the adiabatic cooling of water  before freezing	Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)	Authors:S. Esposito, R. De Risi, L. Somma	 Abstract: An accurate experimental investigation on the Mpemba effect (that is, the freezing of initially hot water before cold one) is carried out, showing that in the adiabatic cooling of water a relevant role is played by supercooling as well as by phase transitions taking place at 6 +/- 1 oC, 3.5 +/- 0.5 oC and 1.3 +/- 0.6 oC, respectively. The last transition, occurring with a non negligible probability of 0.21, has not been detected earlier. Supported by the experimental results achieved, a thorough theoretical analysis of supercooling and such phase transitions, which are interpreted in terms of different ordering of clusters of molecules in water, is given. 
0704.01382	Effects of atomic interactions on Quantum Accelerator Modes	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:Laura Rebuzzini, Roberto Artuso, Shmuel Fishman, Italo Guarneri	 Abstract: We consider the influence of the inclusion of interatomic interactions on the delta-kicked accelerator model. Our analysis concerns in particular quantum accelerator modes, namely quantum ballistic transport near quantal resonances. The atomic interaction is modelled by a Gross-Pitaevskii cubic nonlinearity, and we address both attractive (focusing) and repulsive (defocusing) cases. The most remarkable effect is enhancement or damping of the accelerator modes, depending on the sign of the nonlinear parameter. We provide arguments showing that the effect persists beyond mean-field description, and lies within the experimentally accessible parameter range. 
0704.01383	How far is it to a sudden future singularity of pressure?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Mariusz P. Dabrowski, Tomasz Denkiewicz, Martin A. Hendry	 Abstract: We discuss the constraints coming from current observations of type Ia supernovae on cosmological models which allow sudden future singularities of pressure (with the scale factor and the energy density regular). We show that such a sudden singularity may happen in the very near future (e.g. within ten million years) and its prediction at the present moment of cosmic evolution cannot be distinguished, with current observational data, from the prediction given by the standard quintessence scenario of future evolution. Fortunately, sudden future singularities are characterized by a momentary peak of infinite tidal forces only; there is no geodesic incompletness which means that the evolution of the universe may eventually be continued throughout until another ``more serious'' singularity such as Big-Crunch or Big-Rip. 
0704.01384	Generalizing circles over algebraic extensions	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Tomas Recio, J. Rafael Sendra, Luis Felipe Tabera, Carlos Villarino	 Abstract: This paper deals with a family of spatial rational curves that were introduced by Andradas, Recio and Sendra, under the name of hypercircles, as an algorithmic cornerstone tool in the context of improving the rational parametrization (simplifying the coefficients of the rational functions, when possible) of algebraic varieties. A real circle can be defined as the image of the real axis under a Moebius transformation in the complex field. Likewise, and roughly speaking, a hypercircle can be defined as the image of a line ("the ${\mathbb{K}}$-axis") in a $n$-degree finite algebraic extension $\mathbb{K}(\alpha)\thickapprox\mathbb{K}^n$ under the transformation $\frac{at+b}{ct+d}:\mathbb{K}(\alpha)\to\mathbb{K}(\alpha)$. The aim of this article is to extend, to the case of hypercircles, some of the specific properties of circles. We show that hypercircles are precisely, via $\mathbb{K}$-projective transformations, the rational normal curve of a suitable degree. We also obtain a complete description of the points at infinity of these curves (generalizing the cyclic structure at infinity of circles). We characterize hypercircles as those curves of degree equal to the dimension of the ambient affine space and with infinitely many ${\mathbb{K}}$-rational points, passing through these points at infinity. Moreover, we give explicit formulae for the parametrization and implicitation of hypercircles. Besides the intrinsic interest of this very special family of curves, the understanding of its properties has a direct application to the simplification of parametrizations problem, as shown in the last section. 
0704.01385	Decreasing families of dynamically determined intervals in the power-law  family	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Waldemar Paluba	 Abstract: We study the rate of growth of ratios of intervals delimited by the post-critical orbit of a map in the quasi-quadratic family $x\mapsto -|x|^\alpha +a.$ The critical order $\alpha$ is an arbitrary real number $\alpha>1.$ The range of the parameter $a$ is confined to an interval $(1,a_{\alpha})$ of length depending on the critical order. We prove that in every power-law family there is a unique parameter $p_{\alpha}$ corresponding to the kneading sequence $RLRRRLRC.$ Subsequently, we obtain monotonicity results concerning ratios of all intervals labeled by infinite post-critical orbit in the case of the kneading sequence $RLRL...$ This extends the results from \cite{P}, via refinement of the tools based on special properties of power-law mappings in non-euclidean metric. 
0704.01386	Disorder effect on the Friedel oscillations in a one-dimensional Mott  insulator	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Yuval Weiss, Moshe Goldstein, Richard Berkovits	 Abstract: The Friedel oscillations resulting from coupling a quantum dot to one edge of a disordered one-dimensional wire in the Mott insulator regime, are calculated numerically using the DMRG method. By investigating the influence of the disorder on the Friedel oscillations decay we find that the effect of disorder is reduced by increasing the interaction strength. This behavior is opposite to the recently reported influence of disorder in the Anderson insulator regime, where disorder led to a stronger decay of the Friedel oscillations. 
0704.01387	Description of the Scenario Machine	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:V.M. Lipunov, K.A. Postnov, M.E. Prokhorov, A.I. Bogomazov	 Abstract: We present here an updated description of the "Scenario Machine" code. This tool is used to carry out a population synthesis of binary stars. Previous version of the description can be found at this http URL 
0704.01388	Why do some intermediate polars show soft X-ray emission? A survey of  XMM-Newton spectra	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. A. Evans (Keele University and University of Leicester), Coel Hellier (Keele University)	 Abstract: We make a systematic analysis of the XMM-Newton X-ray spectra of intermediate polars (IPs) and find that, contrary to the traditional picture, most show a soft blackbody component. We compare the results with those from AM Her stars and deduce that the blackbody emission arises from reprocessing of hard X-rays, rather than from the blobby accretion sometimes seen in AM Hers. Whether an IP shows a blackbody component appears to depend primarily on geometric factors: a blackbody is not seen in those that have accretion footprints that are always obscured by accretion curtains or are only visible when foreshortened on the white-dwarf limb. Thus we argue against previous suggestions that the blackbody emission characterises a separate sub-group of IPs which are more akin to AM Hers, and develop a unified picture of the blackbody emission in these stars. 
0704.01389	Gutzwiller description of non-magnetic Mott insulators: a dimer lattice  model	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Michele Fabrizio (SISSA and ICTP, Trieste, Italy)	 Abstract: We introduce a novel extension of the Gutzwiller variational wavefunction able to deal with insulators that escape any mean-field like description, as for instance non-magnetic insulators. As an application, we study the Mott transition from a paramagnetic metal into a non-magnetic Peierls, or valence-bond, Mott insulator. We analyze this model by means of our Gutzwiller wavefunction analytically in the limit of large coordination lattices, where we find that: (1) the Mott transition is first order; (2) the Peierls gap is large in the Mott insulator, although it is mainly contributed by the electron repulsion; (3) singlet-superconductivity arises around the transition. 
0704.01390	Velocity oscillations in actin-based motility	Cell Behavior (q-bio.CB)	Authors:Azam Gholami, Martin Falcke, Erwin Frey	 Abstract: We present a simple and generic theoretical description of actin-based motility, where polymerization of filaments maintains propulsion. The dynamics is driven by polymerization kinetics at the filaments' free ends, crosslinking of the actin network, attachment and detachment of filaments to the obstacle interfaces and entropic forces. We show that spontaneous oscillations in the velocity emerge in a broad range of parameter values, and compare our findings with experiments. 
0704.01391	Path integrals for stiff polymers applied to membrane physics	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:D.S. Dean, R.R. Horgan	 Abstract: Path integrals similar to those describing stiff polymers arise in the Helfrich model for membranes. We show how these types of path integrals can be evaluated and apply our results to study the thermodynamics of a minority stripe phase in a bulk membrane. The fluctuation induced contribution to the line tension between the stripe and the bulk phase is computed, as well as the effective interaction between the two phases in the tensionless case where the two phases have differing bending rigidities. 
0704.01392	Measuring CP violation in Bs->phi phi with LHCb	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:J.F. Libby (on behalf of the LHCb Collaboration)	 Abstract: Sensitivity studies to the CP-violating parameters of the decay Bs->phi phi with the LHCb experiment are presented. The decay proceeds via a b->s s anti-s gluonic-penguin quark transition, which is sensitive to contributions from beyond the Standard Model particles. A time-dependent angular analysis of simulated data leads to an expected statistical uncertainty of 6 degrees on any new physics induced CP-violating phase for a sample corresponding to 2 fb^{-1} of integrated luminosity. The expected precision on sin2beta from the related decay Bd->phi K0S is also discussed. 
0704.01393	A Panchromatic Study of the Globular Cluster NGC 1904. I: The Blue  Straggler Population	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:B. Lanzoni (1,2), N. Sanna (3), F.R. Ferraro (1), E. Valenti (4), G. Beccari (2,5,6), R.P. Schiavon (7), R.T. Rood (7), M. Mapelli (8), S. Sigurdsson (9)- (1 Dip. Astro., Bologna; 2 INAF--Oss. Astro., Bologna; 3 Dip. Fisica, Roma Tor Vergata; 4 ESO-Chile; 5 Dip. Scienze della Comunicazione, Teramo; 6 INAF--Oss. Astro. Collurania, Teramo; 7 Astronomy Dep., University of Virginia; 8 Univ. of Zurich, Institute for Theoretical Physics; 9 Dep. of Astronomy and Astrophysics, The Pennsylvania State University)	 Abstract: By combining high-resolution (HST-WFPC2) and wide-field ground based (2.2m ESO-WFI) and space (GALEX) observations, we have collected a multi-wavelength photometric data base (ranging from the far UV to the near infrared) of the galactic globular cluster NGC1904 (M79). The sample covers the entire cluster extension, from the very central regions up to the tidal radius. In the present paper such a data set is used to study the BSS population and its radial distribution. A total number of 39 bright ($m_{218}\le 19.5$) BSS has been detected, and they have been found to be highly segregated in the cluster core. No significant upturn in the BSS frequency has been observed in the outskirts of NGC 1904, in contrast to other clusters (M 3, 47 Tuc, NGC 6752, M 5) studied with the same technique. Such evidences, coupled with the large radius of avoidance estimated for NGC 1904 ($r_{avoid}\sim 30$ core radii), indicate that the vast majority of the cluster heavy stars (binaries) has already sunk to the core. Accordingly, extensive dynamical simulations suggest that BSS formed by mass transfer activity in primordial binaries evolving in isolation in the cluster outskirts represent only a negligible (0--10%) fraction of the overall population. 
0704.01394	Calculating Valid Domains for BDD-Based Interactive Configuration	Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)	Authors:Tarik Hadzic, Rune Moller Jensen, Henrik Reif Andersen	 Abstract: In these notes we formally describe the functionality of Calculating Valid Domains from the BDD representing the solution space of valid configurations. The formalization is largely based on the CLab configuration framework. 
0704.01395	Higgs and Z' Phenomenology in B-L extension of the Standard Model at LHC	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:W. Emam, S. Khalil	 Abstract: The phenomenology of the low scale U(1)_{B-L} extension of the standard model and its implications at LHC is presented. In this model, an extra gauge boson corresponding to B-L gauge symmetry and an extra SM singlet scalar (heavy Higgs) are predicted. We show a detailed analysis of both heavy and light Higgses decay and production in addition to the possible decay channels of the new gauge boson. We find that the cross sections of the SM-like Higgs production are reduced by ~ 20%-30%, while its decay branching ratios remain intact. The extra Higgs has relatively small cross sections and the branching ratios of Z'-> l^+ l^- are of order ~20% compared to ~ 3% of the SM resuls. Hence, the search for Z' is accessible via a clean dilepton signal at LHC. 
0704.01396	What Can be Learned Studying the Distribution of the Biggest Fragment ?	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:Eric Bonnet (IPNO, GANIL), Francesca Gulminelli (LPCC), Bernard Borderie (IPNO), Nicolas Le Neindre (IPNO), Marie-France Rivet (IPNO)	 Abstract: In the canonical formalism of statistical physics, a signature of a first order phase transition for finite systems is the bimodal distribution of an order parameter. Previous thermodynamical studies of nuclear sources produced in heavy-ion collisions provide information which support the existence of a phase transition in those finite nuclear systems. Some results suggest that the observable Z1 (charge of the biggest fragment) can be considered as a reliable order parameter of the transition. This talk will show how from peripheral collisions studied with the INDRA detector at GSI we can obtain this bimodal behaviour of Z1. Getting rid of the entrance channel effects and under the constraint of an equiprobable distribution of excitation energy (E*), we use the canonical description of a phase transition to link this bimodal behaviour with the residual convexity of the entropy. Theoretical (with and without phase transition) and experimental Z1-E* correlations are compared. This comparison allows us to rule out the case without transition. Moreover that quantitative comparison provides us with information about the coexistence region in the Z1-E* plane which is in good agreement with that obtained with the signal of abnormal uctuations of configurational energy (microcanonical negative heat capacity). 
0704.01397	The p-adic generalized twisted (h,q)-euler-l-function and its  applications	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Mehmet Cenkci	 Abstract: The purpose of this paper is to construct the p-adic twisted (h,q)-Euler-l-function, which interpolates the twisted generalized twisted Euler numbers attached to chi at a negative integer. 
0704.01398	Global coronal seismology	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Istvan Ballai	 Abstract: Following the observation and analysis of large-scale coronal wave-like disturbances, we discuss the theoretical progress made in the field of global coronal seismology. Using simple mathematical techniques we determine average values for magnetic field together with a magnetic map of the quiet Sun. The interaction between global coronal waves and coronal loops allows us to study loop oscillations in a much wider context, i.e. we connect global and local coronal oscillations. 
0704.01399	La formule de Lie-Trotter pour les semi-groupes fortement continus	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Ludovic Dan Lemle (FIH)	 Abstract: In this research project we presents the general properties, the spectral properties and the representation formulas for $C_0$-semigroups of linear operators in Banach spaces 
0704.01400	Reconstructing the Intrinsic Triaxial Shape of the Virgo Cluster	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Bomee Lee, Jounghun Lee (Seoul National Univ.)	 Abstract: To use galaxy clusters as a cosmological probe, it is important to account for their triaxiality. Assuming that the triaxial shapes of galaxy clusters are induced by the tidal interaction with the surrounding matter, Lee and Kang recently developed a reconstruction algorithm for the measurement of the axial ratio of a triaxial cluster. We examine the validity of this reconstruction algorithm by performing an observational test of it with the Virgo cluster as a target. We first modify the LK06 algorithm by incorporating the two dimensional projection effect. Then, we analyze the 1275 member galaxies from the Virgo Cluster Catalogue and find the projected direction of the Virgo cluster major axis by measuring the anisotropy in the spatial distribution of the member galaxies in the two dimensional projected plane. Applying the modified reconstruction algorithm to the analyzed data, we find that the axial ratio of the triaxial Virgo cluster is (1: 0.54 : 0.73). This result is consistent with the recent observational report from the Virgo Cluster Survey, proving the robustness of the reconstruction algorithm. It is also found that at the inner radii the shape tends to be more like prolate. We discuss the possible effect of the Virgo cluster triaxiality on the mass estimation. 
0704.01401	Flat Pencils of Symplectic Connections and Hamiltonian Operators of  Degree 2	Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)	Authors:James T. Ferguson	 Abstract: Bi-Hamiltonian structures involving Hamiltonian operators of degree 2 are studied. Firstly, pairs of degree 2 operators are considered in terms of an algebra structure on the space of 1-forms, related to so-called Fermionic Novikov algebras. Then, degree 2 operators are considered as deformations of hydrodynamic type Poisson brackets. 
0704.01402	IR-active optical phonons in Pnma-1, Pnma-2 and R3c phases of  LaMnO_{3+δ}	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:I. S. Smirnova, A. V. Bazhenov, T. N. Fursova, A. V. Dubovitskii, L. S. Uspenskaya, M. Yu. Maksimuk	 Abstract: Infrared-active phonons in LaMnO_{3+\delta} were studied by means of the reflection and transmission spectroscopy from 50 to 800 cm^{-1} at room temperature. Powder and ceramic samples of the phases of Pnma-2 (\delta=0.02), Pnma-1 (\delta=0.08), and R3c (\delta=0.15) were investigated. Besides, energies of the dipole-active phonons in Pnma-2, Pnma-1 phases were obtained by lattice-dynamics calculations. The transformations of IR-active phonons with the increase of \delta in the sequence of Pnma-2, Pnma-1, R3c are discussed. 
0704.01403	Equivalences of Higher Derived Brackets	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Alberto S. Cattaneo, Florian Schaetz	 Abstract: This note elaborates on Th. Voronov's construction [math/0304038,math/0412202] of $L_\infty$-structures via higher derived brackets with a Maurer-Cartan element. It is shown that gauge equivalent Maurer-Cartan elements induce $L_\infty$-isomorphic structures. Applications in symplectic, Poisson and Dirac geometry are discussed. 
0704.01404	Neutron matter from low-momentum interactions	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Bengt Friman, Kai Hebeler, Achim Schwenk, Laura Tolos	 Abstract: We present a perturbative calculation of the neutron matter equation of state based on low-momentum two- and three-nucleon interactions. Our results are compared to the model-independent virial equation of state and to variational calculations, and we provide theoretical error estimates by varying the cutoff used to regulate nuclear interactions. In addition, we study the dependence of the BCS $^1$S$_0$ superfluid pairing gap on nuclear interactions and on the cutoff. The resulting gaps are well constrained by the nucleon-nucleon scattering phase shifts, and the cutoff dependence is very weak for sharp or sufficiently narrow smooth regulators with cutoffs $\lm > 1.6 \fmi$. 
0704.01405	Euclidean analysis of the entropy functional formalism	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Oscar J. C. Dias, Pedro J. Silva	 Abstract: The attractor mechanism implies that the supersymmetric black hole near horizon solution is defined only in terms of the conserved charges and is therefore independent of asymptotic moduli. Starting only with the near horizon geometry, Sen's entropy functional formalism computes the entropy of an extreme black hole by means of a Legendre transformation where the electric fields are defined as conjugated variables to the electric charges. However, traditional Euclidean methods require the knowledge of the full geometry to compute the black hole thermodynamic quantities. We establish the connection between the entropy functional formalism and the standard Euclidean formalism taken at zero temperature. We find that Sen's entropy function 'f' (on-shell) matches the zero temperature limit of the Euclidean action. Moreover, Sen's near horizon angular and electric fields agree with the chemical potentials that are defined from the zero-temperature limit of the Euclidean formalism. 
0704.01406	On the existence of chaotic circumferential waves in spinning disks	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:Arzhang Angoshtari, Mir Abbas Jalali	 Abstract: We use a third-order perturbation theory and Melnikov's method to prove the existence of chaos in spinning circular disks subject to a lateral point load. We show that the emergence of transverse homoclinic and heteroclinic points respectively lead to a random reversal in the traveling direction of circumferential waves and a random phase shift of magnitude $\pi$ for both forward and backward wave components. These long-term phenomena occur in imperfect low-speed disks sufficiently far from fundamental resonances. 
0704.01407	First principles theory of chiral dichroism in electron microscopy  applied to 3d ferromagnets	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Jan Rusz, Stefano Rubino, Peter Schattschneider	 Abstract: Recently it was demonstrated (Schattschneider et al., Nature 441 (2006), 486), that an analogue of the X-ray magnetic circular dichroism (XMCD) experiment can be performed with the transmission electron microscope (TEM). The new phenomenon has been named energy-loss magnetic chiral dichroism (EMCD). In this work we present a detailed ab initio study of the chiral dichroism in the Fe, Co and Ni transition elements. We discuss the methods used for the simulations together with the validity and accuracy of the treatment, which can, in principle, apply to any given crystalline specimen. The dependence of the dichroic signal on the sample thickness, accuracy of the detector position and the size of convergence and collection angles is calculated. 
0704.01408	Probing MACHOs by observation of M31 pixel lensing with the 1.5m Loiano  telescope	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Calchi Novati (1,2), G. Covone (3), F. De Paolis (4), M. Dominik (5), Y. Giraud-Heraud (6), G. Ingrosso (4), Ph. Jetzer (7), L. Mancini (1,2), A. Nucita (4), G. Scarpetta (1,2)F. Strafella (4), A. Gould (8) (The PLAN collaboration) ((1) University of Salerno, (2) INFN, Napoli, (3) INAF - OAC, (4) University of Lecce, (5) SUPA, (6) APC, (7) University of Zurich, (8) OSU)	 Abstract: We analyse a series of pilot observations in order to study microlensing of (unresolved) stars in M31 with the 1.5m Loiano telescope, including observations on both identified variable source stars and reported microlensing events. We also look for previously unknown variability and discover a nova. We discuss an observing strategy for an extended campaign with the goal of determining whether MACHOs exist or whether all microlensing events are compatible with lens stars in M31. 
0704.01409	Preconditioned Temporal Difference Learning	Learning (cs.LG)	Authors:Yao HengShuai	 Abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. This draft is withdrawn for its poor quality in english, unfortunately produced by the author when he was just starting his science route. Look at the ICML version instead: this http URL 
0704.01410	QCD thermodynamics and confinement from a dynamical quasiparticle point  of view	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:W. Cassing (Univ. of Giessen)	 Abstract: In this study it is demonstrated that a simple picture of the QCD gluon liquid emerges in the dynamical quasiparticle model that specifies the active degrees of freedom in the time-like sector and yields a potential energy density in the space-like sector. By using the time-like gluon density (or scalar gluon density) as an independent degree of freedom - instead of the temperature $T$ as a Lagrange parameter - variations of the potential energy density lead to effective mean-fields for time-like gluons and an effective gluon-gluon interaction strength at low density. The latter yields a simple dynamical picture for the gluon fusion to color neutral glueballs when approaching the phase boundary from a temperature higher than $T_c$ and paves the way for an off-shell transport theoretical description of the parton dynamics. 
0704.01411	Trellis-Coded Quantization Based on Maximum-Hamming-Distance Binary  Codes	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Lorenzo Cappellari	 Abstract: Most design approaches for trellis-coded quantization take advantage of the duality of trellis-coded quantization with trellis-coded modulation, and use the same empirically-found convolutional codes to label the trellis branches. This letter presents an alternative approach that instead takes advantage of maximum-Hamming-distance convolutional codes. The proposed source codes are shown to be competitive with the best in the literature for the same computational complexity. 
0704.01412	Dynamic fracture of icosahedral model quasicrystals: A molecular  dynamics study	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:F. Rösch (1), Ch. Rudhart (1), J. Roth (1), H.-R. Trebin (1), P. Gumbsch (2 and 3) ((1) Institut für Theoretische und Angewandte Physik, Universität Stuttgart, (2) Institut für Zuverlässigkeit von Bauteilen und Systemen, Universität Karlsruhe, (3) Fraunhofer Institut für Werkstoffmechanik, Freiburg)	 Abstract: Ebert et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 77, 3827 (1996)] have fractured icosahedral Al-Mn-Pd single crystals in ultrahigh vacuum and have investigated the cleavage planes in-situ by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM). Globular patterns in the STM-images were interpreted as clusters of atoms. These are significant structural units of quasicrystals. The experiments of Ebert et al. imply that they are also stable physical entities, a property controversially discussed currently. For a clarification we performed the first large scale fracture simulations on three-dimensional complex binary systems. We studied the propagation of mode I cracks in an icosahedral model quasicrystal by molecular dynamics techniques at low temperature. In particular we examined how the shape of the cleavage plane is influenced by the clusters inherent in the model and how it depends on the plane structure. Brittle fracture with no indication of dislocation activity is observed. The crack surfaces are rough on the scale of the clusters, but exhibit constant average heights for orientations perpendicular to high symmetry axes. From detailed analyses of the fractured samples we conclude that both, the plane structure and the clusters, strongly influence dynamic fracture in quasicrystals and that the clusters therefore have to be regarded as physical entities. 
0704.01413	Preparation and detection of magnetic quantum phases in optical  superlattices	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:A. M. Rey, V. Gritsev, I. Bloch, E. Demler, M.D. Lukin	 Abstract: We describe a novel approach to prepare, detect and characterize magnetic quantum phases in ultra-cold spinor atoms loaded in optical superlattices. Our technique makes use of singlet-triplet spin manipulations in an array of isolated double well potentials in analogy to recently demonstrated quantum control in semiconductor quantum dots. We also discuss the many-body singlet-triplet spin dynamics arising from coherent coupling between nearest neighbor double wells and derive an effective description for such system. We use it to study the generation of complex magnetic states by adiabatic and non-equilibrium dynamics. 
0704.01414	Sobolev solution for semilinear PDE with obstacle under monotonicity  condition	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:A.Matoussi, M. Xu	 Abstract: We prove the existence and uniqueness of the solution of a semilinear PDE's and also PDE's with obstacle under monotonicity condition. Moreover we give the probabilistic interpretation of the Sobolev's solutions in term of Backward SDE and reflected Backward SDE respectively. 
0704.01415	Exact distribution of the sample variance from a gamma parent  distribution	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Thomas Royen	 Abstract: Several representations of the exact cdf of the sum of squares of n independent gamma-distributed random variables Xi are given, in particular by a series of gamma distribution functions. Using a characterization of the gamma distribution by Laha, an expansion of the exact distribution of the sample variance is derived by a Taylor series approach with the former distribution as its leading term. In particular for integer orders alpha some further series are provided, including a convex combination of gamma distributions for alpha = 1 and nearly of this type for alpha > 1. Furthermore, some representations of the distribution of the angle Phi between (X1,...,Xn) and (1,...,1) are given by orthogonal series. All these series are based on the same sequence of easily computed moments of cos(Phi). 
0704.01416	Framework for non-perturbative analysis of a Z(3)-symmetric effective  theory of finite temperature QCD	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:A. Kurkela	 Abstract: We study a three dimensional Z(3)-symmetric effective theory of high temperature QCD. The exact lattice-continuum relations, needed in order to perform lattice simulations with physical parameters, are computed to order O(a^0) in lattice perturbation theory. Lattice simulations are performed to determine the phase structure of a subset of the parameter space. 
0704.01417	Constraints on Regge models from perturbation theory	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Jorge Mondejar, Antonio Pineda	 Abstract: We study the constraints that the operator product expansion imposes on large $N_c$ inspired QCD models for current-current correlators. We focus on the constraints obtained by going beyond the leading-order parton computation. We explicitly show that, assumed a given mass spectrum: linear Regge behavior in $n$ (the principal quantum number) plus corrections in $1/n$, we can obtain the logarithmic (and constant) behavior in $n$ of the decay constants within a systematic expansion in $1/n$. Our example shows that it is possible to have different large $n$ behavior for the vector and pseudo-vector mass spectrum and yet comply with all the constraints from the operator product expansion. 
0704.01418	Asymptotic stability at infinity for bidimensional Hurwitz vector fields	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Roland Rabanal	 Abstract: Let $X:U-->R^2$ be a differentiable vector field. Set $Spc(X)={eigenvalues of DX(z) : z\in U}$. This $X$ is called Hurwitz if $Spc(X)\subset{z\in C:\Re(z)<0}$. Suppose that $X$ is Hurwitz and $U\subset R^2$ is the complement of a compact set. Then by adding to $X$ a constant $v$ one obtains that the infinity is either an attractor or a repellor for $X+v.$ 
0704.01419	Quantitative LEED I-V and ab initio study of the Si(111)-3x2-Sm surface  structure and the missing half order spots in the 3x1 diffraction pattern	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:C. Eames, M. I. J. Probert, S. P. Tear	 Abstract: We have used Low Energy Electron Diffraction (LEED) I-V analysis and ab initio calculations to quantitatively determine the honeycomb chain model structure for the Si(111)-3x2-Sm surface. This structure and a similar 3x1 recontruction have been observed for many Alkali-Earth and Rare-Earth metals on the Si(111) surface. Our ab initio calculations show that there are two almost degenerate sites for the Sm atom in the unit cell and the LEED I-V analysis reveals that an admixture of the two in a ratio that slightly favours the site with the lower energy is the best match to experiment. We show that the I-V curves are insensitive to the presence of the Sm atom and that this results in a very low intensity for the half order spots which might explain the appearance of a 3x1 LEED pattern produced by all of the structures with a 3x2 unit cell. 
0704.01420	Renormalization of Hamiltonian QCD	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:A. Andrasi, J. C. Taylor	 Abstract: We study to one-loop order the renormalization of QCD in the Coulomb gauge using the Hamitonian formalism. Divergences occur which might require counter-terms outside the Hamiltonian formalism, but they can be cancelled by a redefinition of the Yang-Mills electric field. 
0704.01421	What made GRBs 060505 and 060614?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. Jakobsson, J. P. U. Fynbo	 Abstract: Recent observations of two nearby SN-less long-duration gamma-ray bursts (GRBs), which share no obvious characteristics in their prompt emission, suggest a new phenomenological type of massive stellar death. Here we briefly review the observational properties of these bursts and their proposed hosts, and discuss whether a new GRB classification scheme is needed. 
0704.01422	A new, very massive modular Liquid Argon Imaging Chamber to detect low  energy off-axis neutrinos from the CNGS beam. (Project MODULAr)	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:B. Baibussinov (1), M. Baldo Ceolin (1), G. Battistoni (2), P. Benetti (3), A. Borio (3), E. Calligarich (3), M. Cambiaghi (3), F. Cavanna (4), S. Centro (1), A. G. Cocco (5), R. Dolfini (3), A. Gigli Berzolari (3), C. Farnese (1), A. Fava (1), A. Ferrari (2), G. Fiorillo (5), D. Gibin (1), A. Guglielmi (1), G. Mannocchi (6), F. Mauri (3), A. Menegolli (3), G. Meng (1), C. Montanari (3), O. Palamara (4), L. Periale (6), A. Piazzoli (3), P. Picchi (6), F. Pietropaolo (1), A. Rappoldi (3), G.L. Raselli (3), C. Rubbia (4), P.Sala (2), G. Satta (6), F. Varanini (1), S. Ventura (1), C. Vignoli (3) ((1) Dipartimento di Fisica e INFN, Universita' di Padova, Italy, (2) Dipartimento di Fisica e INFN, Universita' di Milano, Italy, (3) Dipartimento di Fisica Nucleare, Teorica e INFN, Universita' di Pavia, Italy, (4) Laboratori Nazionali del Gran Sasso dell'INFN, Italy, (5) Dipartimento di Scienze Fisiche, INFN e Universita' Federico II di Napoli, Italy, (6) Laboratori Nazionali INFN di Frascati, Italy)	 Abstract: The paper is considering an opportunity for the CERN/GranSasso (CNGS) neutrino complex, concurrent time-wise with T2K and NOvA, to search for theta_13 oscillations and CP violation. Compared with large water Cherenkov (T2K) and fine grained scintillators (NOvA), the LAr-TPC offers a higher detection efficiency and a lower backgrounds, since virtually all channels may be unambiguously recognized. The present proposal, called MODULAr, describes a 20 kt fiducial volume LAr-TPC, following very closely the technology developed for the ICARUS-T60o, and is focused on the following activities, for which we seek an extended international collaboration: (1) the neutrino beam from the CERN 400 GeV proton beam and an optimised horn focussing, eventually with an increased intensity in the framework of the LHC accelerator improvement program; (2) A new experimental area LNGS-B, of at least 50000 m3 at 10 km off-axis from the main Laboratory, eventually upgradable to larger sizes. A location is under consideration at about 1.2 km equivalent water depth; (3) A new LAr Imaging detector of at least 20 kt fiducial mass. Such an increase in the volume over the current ICARUS T600 needs to be carefully considered. It is concluded that a very large mass is best realised with a set of many identical, independent units, each of 5 kt, "cloning" the technology of the T600. Further phases may foresee extensions of MODULAr to meet future physics goals. The experiment might reasonably be operational in about 4/5 years, provided a new hall is excavated in the vicinity of the Gran Sasso Laboratory and adequate funding and participation are made available. 
0704.01423	Momentum distributions in time-dependent density functional theory:  Product phase approximation for non-sequential double ionization in strong  laser fields	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:F. Wilken, D. Bauer	 Abstract: We investigate the possibility to deduce momentum space properties from time-dependent density functional calculations. Electron and ion momentum distributions after double ionization of a model Helium atom in a strong few-cycle laser pulse are studied. We show that, in this case, the choice of suitable functionals for the observables is considerably more important than the choice of the correlation potential in the time-dependent Kohn-Sham equations. By comparison with the solution of the time-dependent Schroedinger equation, the insufficiency of functionals neglecting electron correlation is demonstrated. We construct a functional of the Kohn-Sham orbitals, which in principle yields the exact momentum distributions of the electrons and the ion. The product-phase approximation is introduced, which reduces the problem of approximating this functional significantly. 
0704.01424	The Amadeus project at Dafne	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:Catalina Curceanu (on behalf of the AMADEUS Collaboration)	 Abstract: The change of the hadron masses and hadron interactions in the nuclear medium and the structure of cold dense hadronic matter are hot topics of hadron physics today. These important, yet unsolved, problems will be the research field of AMADEUS (Antikaonic Matter At DAFNE: Experiments with Unraveling Spectroscopy) - new experiment proposal at DAFNE accelerator at LNF-INFN. AMADEUS will search for antikaon-mediated deeply bound nuclear states produced in helium by stopping K- from DAFNE, both in the formation and in the decay processes. 
0704.01425	Measurements and analysis of the upper critical field $H_{c2}$ on an  underdoped and overdoped $La_{2-x}Sr_xCuO_4$ compounds	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:D. H. N. Dias, E. V. L. de Mello, J. L. Gonzalez, H. Borges, A. Gomes, A. Loose, A. Lopez, F. Vieira, E. Baggio-Saitovitch	 Abstract: The upper critical field $H_{c2}$ is one of the many non conventional properties of high-$T_c$ cuprates. It is possible that the $H_{c2}(T)$ anomalies are due to the presence of inhomogeneities in the local charge carrier density $\rho$ of the $CuO_2$ planes. In order to study this point, we have prepared good quality samples of polycrystalline $La_{2-x}Sr_xCuO_{4}$ using the wet-chemical method, which has demonstrated to produce samples with a better cation distribution. In particular, we have studied the temperature dependence of the second critical field, $H_{c2}(T)$, through the magnetization measurements on two samples with opposite average carrier concentration ($\rho_m=x$) and nearly the same critical temperature, namely $\rho_m = 0.08$ (underdoped) and $\rho_m = 0.25$ (overdoped). The results close to $T_c$ do not follow the usual Ginzburg-Landau theory and are interpreted by a theory which takes into account the influence of the inhomogeneities. 
0704.01426	Thermal Hadronization and Hawking-Unruh Radiation in QCD	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:P. Castorina, D. Kharzeev, H. Satz	 Abstract: We conjecture that because of color confinement, the physical vacuum forms an event horizon for quarks and gluons which can be crossed only by quantum tunneling, i.e., through the QCD counterpart of Hawking radiation by black holes. Since such radiation cannot transmit information to the outside, it must be thermal, of a temperature determined by the chromodynamic force at the confinement surface, and it must maintain color neutrality. We explore the possibility that the resulting process provides a common mechanism for thermal hadron production in high energy interactions, from $e^+e^-$ annihilation to heavy ion collisions. 
0704.01427	Photo-assisted shot noise in Coulomb interacting systems	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:A. Crepieux, M. Guigou, A. Popoff, P. Devillard, T. Martin	 Abstract: We consider the fluctuations of the electrical current (shot noise) in the presence of a voltage time-modulation. For a non-interacting metal, it is known that the derivative of the photo-assisted noise has a staircase behavior. In the presence of Coulomb interactions, we show that the photo-assisted noise presents a more complex profile, in particular for the two following systems: 1) a two-dimensional electron gas in the fractional quantum Hall regime for which we have obtained evenly spaced singularities in the noise derivative, with a spacing related to the filling factor and, 2) a carbon nanotube for which a smoothed staircase in the noise derivative is obtained. 
0704.01428	A unified projection formalism for the Al-Pd-Mn quasicrystal  Xi-approximants and their metadislocations	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Michael Engel, Hans-Rainer Trebin (Institut für Theoretische und Angewandte Physik, Universität Stuttgart)	 Abstract: The approximants xi, xi' and xi'_n of the quasicrystal Al-Mn-Pd display most interesting plastic properties as for example phason-induced deformation processes (Klein, H., Audier, M., Boudard, M., de Boissieu, M., Beraha, L., and Duneau, M., 1996, Phil. Mag. A, 73, 309.) or metadislocations (Klein, H., Feuerbacher, M., Schall, P., and Urban, K., 1999, Phys. Rev. Lett., 82, 3468.). Here we demonstrate that the phases and their deformed or defected states can be described by a simple projection formalism in three-dimensional space - not as usual in four to six dimensions. With the method we can interpret microstructures observed with electron microscopy as phasonic phase boundaries. Furthermore we determine the metadislocations of lowest energy and relate them uniquely to experimentally observed ones. Since moving metadislocations in the xi'-phase can create new phason-planes, we suggest a dislocation induced phase transition from xi' to xi'_n. The methods developed in this paper can as well be used for various other complex metallic alloys. 
0704.01429	Light stops in the MSSM parameter space	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:A.V.Gladyshev, D.I.Kazakov, M.G.Paucar	 Abstract: We consider the regions of the MSSM parameter space where the top squarks become light and even may be the LSP. This happens when the triple scalar coupling A becomes very big compared to m_0. We show that in this case the requirement that the LSP is neutral imposes noticeable constraint on the parameter space excluding low m_0 and m_{1/2} similar to constraint from the Higgs mass limit. In some cases these constraints overlap. This picture takes place in a wide region of \tan\beta. In a narrow band close to the border line the stops are long-lived particles and decay into quarks and neutralino (chargino). The cross-section of their production at LHC via gluon fusion mechanism in this region may reach a few pb. 
0704.01430	The blue plume population in dwarf spheroidal galaxies: genuine blue  stragglers or young stellar population?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Y. Momany, E.V. Held, I. Saviane, S. Zaggia, L. Rizzi, M. Gullieuszik	 Abstract: Abridged... Blue stragglers (BSS) are thought to be the product of either primordial or collisional binary systems. In the context of dwarf spheroidal galaxies it is hard to firmly disentangle a genuine BSS population from young main sequence (MS) stars tracing a ~1-2 Gyr old star forming episode. Assuming that their blue plume populations are made of BSS, we estimate the BSS frequency for 8 Local Group non star-forming dwarf galaxies, using a compilation of ground and space based photometry. Our results can be summarized as follows: (i) The BSS frequency in dwarf galaxies, at any given Mv, is always higher than that in globular clusters of similar luminosities; (ii) the BSS frequency for the lowest luminosity dwarf galaxies is in excellent agreement with that observed in the Milky Way halo; and most interestingly (iii) derive a statistically significant anti-correlation between the BSS frequency and the galaxy Mv. The low density, almost collision-less, environments of our dwarf galaxy sample allow us to infer (i) their very low dynamical evolution; (ii) a negligible production of collisional BSS; and consequently (iii) that their blue plumes are mainly made of primordial binaries. The dwarf galaxies anti-correlation can be used as a discriminator: galaxies obeying the anti-correlation are more likely to possess genuine primordial BSS rather than young main sequence stars. 
0704.01431	Generalized characteristic polynomials of graph bundles	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Dongseok Kim, Hye Kyung Kim, Jaeun Lee	 Abstract: In this paper, we find computational formulae for generalized characteristic polynomials of graph bundles. We show that the number of spanning trees in a graph is the partial derivative (at (0,1)) of the generalized characteristic polynomial of the graph. Since the reciprocal of the Bartholdi zeta function of a graph can be derived from the generalized characteristic polynomial of a graph, consequently, the Bartholdi zeta function of a graph bundle can be computed by using our computational formulae. 
0704.01432	Some invariants of pretzel links	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Dongseok Kim, Jaeun Lee	 Abstract: We show that nontrivial classical pretzel knots L(p,q,r) are hyperbolic with eight exceptions which are torus knots. We find Conway polynomials of n-pretzel links using a new computation tree. As applications, we compute the genera of n-pretzel links using these polynomials and find the basket number of pretzel links by showing that the genus and the canonical genus of a pretzel link are the same. 
0704.01433	Exact retrospective Monte Carlo computation of arithmetic average Asian  options	Computational Finance (q-fin.CP)	Authors:Benjamin Jourdain (CERMICS), Mohamed Sbai (CERMICS)	 Abstract: Taking advantage of the recent litterature on exact simulation algorithms (Beskos, Papaspiliopoulos and Roberts) and unbiased estimation of the expectation of certain fonctional integrals (Wagner, Beskos et al. and Fearnhead et al.), we apply an exact simulation based technique for pricing continuous arithmetic average Asian options in the Black and Scholes framework. Unlike existing Monte Carlo methods, we are no longer prone to the discretization bias resulting from the approximation of continuous time processes through discrete sampling. Numerical results of simulation studies are presented and variance reduction problems are considered. 
0704.01434	Rotationally-invariant slave-boson formalism and momentum dependence of  the quasiparticle weight	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Frank Lechermann, Antoine Georges, Gabriel Kotliar, Olivier Parcollet	 Abstract: We generalize the rotationally-invariant formulation of the slave-boson formalism to multiorbital models, with arbitrary interactions, crystal fields, and multiplet structure. This allows for the study of multiplet effects on the nature of low-energy quasiparticles. Non-diagonal components of the matrix of quasiparticle weights can be calculated within this framework. When combined with cluster extensions of dynamical mean-field theory, this method allows us to address the effects of spatial correlations, such as the generation of the superexchange and the momentum dependence of the quasiparticle weight. We illustrate the method on a two-band Hubbard model, a Hubbard model made of two coupled layers, and a two-dimensional single-band Hubbard model (within a two-site cellular dynamical mean-field approximation). 
0704.01435	On the failure of subadditivity of the Wigner-Yanase entropy	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Robert Seiringer	 Abstract: It was recently shown by Hansen that the Wigner-Yanase entropy is, for general states of quantum systems, not subadditive with respect to decomposition into two subsystems, although this property is known to hold for pure states. We investigate the question whether the weaker property of subadditivity for pure states with respect to decomposition into more than two subsystems holds. This property would have interesting applications in quantum chemistry. We show, however, that it does not hold in general, and provide a counterexample. 
0704.01436	Symmetries and the cosmological constant puzzle	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:A.A. Andrianov, F. Cannata, P. Giacconi, A.Yu. Kamenshchik, R. Soldati	 Abstract: We outline the evaluation of the cosmological constant in the framework of the standard field-theoretical treatment of vacuum energy and discuss the relation between the vacuum energy problem and the gauge-group spontaneous symmetry breaking. We suggest possible extensions of the 't Hooft-Nobbenhuis symmetry, in particular, its complexification till duality symmetry and discuss the compatible implementation on gravity. We propose to use the discrete time-reflection transform to formulate a framework in which one can eliminate the huge contributions of vacuum energy into the effective cosmological constant and suggest that the breaking of time--reflection symmetry could be responsible for a small observable value of this constant. 
0704.01437	The property of kappa-deformed statistics for a relativistic gas in an  electromagnetic field: kappa parameter and kappa-distribution	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Guo Lina, Du Jiulin, Liu Zhipeng	 Abstract: We investigate the physical property of the kappa parameter and the kappa-distribution in the kappa-deformed statistics, based on Kaniadakis entropy, for a relativistic gas in an electromagnetic field. We derive two relations for the relativistic gas in the framework of kappa-deformed statistics, which describe the physical situation represented by the relativistic kappa-distribution function, provide a reasonable connection between the parameter kappa, the temperature four-gradient and the four-vector potential gradient, and thus present for the case kappa different from zero a clearly physical meaning. It is shown that such a physical situation is a meta-equilibrium state of the system, but has a new physical characteristic. 
0704.01438	A KK-monopole giant graviton in AdS_5 x Y_5	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Bert Janssen, Yolanda Lozano, Diego Rodriguez-Gomez	 Abstract: We construct a new giant graviton solution in AdS_5 x Y_5, with Y_5 a quasi-regular Sasaki-Einstein manifold, consisting on a Kaluza-Klein monopole wrapped around the Y_5 and with its Taub-NUT direction in AdS_5. We find that this configuration has minimal energy when put in the centre of AdS_5, where it behaves as a massless particle. When we take Y_5 to be S^5, we provide a microscopical description in terms of multiple gravitational waves expanding into the fuzzy S^5 defined as an S^1 bundle over the fuzzy CP^2. Finally we provide a possible field theory dual interpretation of the construction. 
0704.01439	Critical Behavior of a Trapped Interacting Bose Gas	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Tobias Donner, Stephan Ritter, Thomas Bourdel, Anton Öttl, Michael Köhl, Tilman Esslinger	 Abstract: The phase transition of Bose-Einstein condensation is studied in the critical regime, when fluctuations extend far beyond the length scale of thermal de Broglie waves. Using matter-wave interference we measure the correlation length of these critical fluctuations as a function of temperature. The diverging behavior of the correlation length above the critical temperature is observed, from which we determine the critical exponent of the correlation length for a trapped, weakly interacting Bose gas to be $\nu=0.67\pm 0.13$. This measurement has direct implications for the understanding of second order phase transitions. 
0704.01440	Tiling models for metadislocations in AlPdMn approximants	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Michael Engel, Hans-Rainer Trebin (Institut für Theoretische und Angewandte Physik, Universität Stuttgart)	 Abstract: The AlPdMn quasicrystal approximants xi, xi', and xi'_n of the 1.6 nm decagonal phase and R, T, and T_n of the 1.2 nm decagonal phase can be viewed as arrangements of cluster columns on two-dimensional tilings. We substitute the tiles by Penrose rhombs and show, that alternative tilings can be constructed by a simple cut and projection formalism in three dimensional hyperspace. It follows that in the approximants there is a phasonic degree of freedom, whose excitation results in the reshuffling of the clusters. We apply the tiling model for metadislocations, which are special textures of partial dislocations. 
0704.01441	Heisenberg antiferromagnet with anisotropic exchange on the Kagome  lattice: Description of the magnetic properties of volborthite	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:T. Yavors'kii, W. Apel, H.-U. Everts	 Abstract: We study the properties of the Heisenberg antiferromagnet with spatially anisotropic nearest-neighbour exchange couplings on the kagome net, i.e. with coupling J in one lattice direction and couplings J' along the other two directions. For J/J' > 1, this model is believed to describe the magnetic properties of the mineral volborthite. In the classical limit, it exhibits two kinds of ground states: a ferrimagnetic state for J/J' < 1/2 and a large manifold of canted spin states for J/J' > 1/2. To include quantum effects self-consistently, we investigate the Sp(N) symmetric generalisation of the original SU(2) symmetric model in the large-N limit. In addition to the dependence on the anisotropy, the Sp(N) symmetric model depends on a parameter kappa that measures the importance of quantum effects. Our numerical calculations reveal that in the kappa-J/J' plane, the system shows a rich phase diagram containing a ferrimagnetic phase, an incommensurate phase, and a decoupled chain phase, the latter two with short- and long-range order. We corroborate these results by showing that the boundaries between the various phases and several other features of the Sp(N) phase diagram can be determined by analytical calculations. Finally, the application of a block-spin perturbation expansion to the trimerised version of the original spin-1/2 model leads us to suggest that in the limit of strong anisotropy, J/J' >> 1, the ground state of the original model is a collinearly ordered antiferromagnet, which is separated from the incommensurate state by a quantum phase transition. 
0704.01442	On the Nature of Ultra-Luminous X-ray Sources from Optical/IR  Measurements	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Mark Cropper, Christopher Copperwheat, Kinwah Wu, Roberto Soria	 Abstract: We present a model for the prediction of the optical/infra-red emission from ULXs. In the model, ULXs are binary systems with accretion taking place through Roche lobe overflow. We show that irradiation effects and presence of an accretion disk significantly modify the optical/infrared flux compared to single stars, and also that the system orientation is important. We include additional constraints from the mass transfer rate to constrain the parameters of the donor star, and to a lesser extent the mass of the BH. We apply the model to fit photometric data for several ULX counterparts. We find that most donor stars are of spectral type B and are older and less massive than reported elsewhere, but that no late-type donors are admissable. The degeneracy of the acceptable parameter space will be significantly reduced with observations over a wider spectral range, and if time-resolved data become available. 
0704.01443	Dephasing due to a fluctuating fractional quantum Hall edge current	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:T.K.T Nguyen, A. Crepieux, T. Jonckheere, A.V. Nguyen, Y. Levinson, T. Martin	 Abstract: The dephasing rate of an electron level in a quantum dot, placed next to a fluctuating edge current in the fractional quantum Hall effect, is considered. Using perturbation theory, we first show that this rate has an anomalous dependence on the bias voltage applied to the neighboring quantum point contact, because of the Luttinger liquid physics which describes the fractional Hall fluid. Next, we describe exactly the weak to strong backscattering crossover using the Bethe-Ansatz solution. 
0704.01444	Fracture of complex metallic alloys: An atomistic study of model systems	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:F. Rösch (1), H.-R. Trebin (1), P. Gumbsch (2 and 3) ((1) Institut für Theoretische und Angewandte Physik, Universität Stuttgart, (2) Institut für Zuverlässigkeit von Bauteilen und Systemen, Universität Karlsruhe, (3) Fraunhofer Institut für Werkstoffmechanik, Freiburg)	 Abstract: Molecular dynamics simulations of crack propagation are performed for two extreme cases of complex metallic alloys (CMAs): In a model quasicrystal the structure is determined by clusters of atoms, whereas the model C15 Laves phase is a simple periodic stacking of a unit cell. The simulations reveal that the basic building units of the structures also govern their fracture behaviour. Atoms in the Laves phase play a comparable role to the clusters in the quasicrystal. Although the latter are not rigid units, they have to be regarded as significant physical entities. 
0704.01445	Deformed Wigner crystal in a one-dimensional quantum dot	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Yasha Gindikin, V. A. Sablikov	 Abstract: The spatial Fourier spectrum of the electron density distribution in a finite 1D system and the distribution function of electrons over single-particle states are studied in detail to show that there are two universal features in their behavior, which characterize the electron ordering and the deformation of Wigner crystal by boundaries. The distribution function has a $\delta$-like singularity at the Fermi momentum $k_F$. The Fourier spectrum of the density has a step-like form at the wavevector $2k_F$, with the harmonics being absent or vanishing above this threshold. These features are found by calculations using exact diagonalization method. They are shown to be caused by Wigner ordering of electrons, affected by the boundaries. However the common Luttinger liquid model with open boundaries fails to capture these features, because it overestimates the deformation of the Wigner crystal. An improvement of the Luttinger liquid model is proposed which allows one to describe the above features correctly. It is based on the corrected form of the density operator conserving the particle number. 
0704.01446	Curvature in Synthetic Differential Geometry of Groupoids	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Hirokazu Nishimura	 Abstract: We study the fundamental properties of curvature in groupoids within the framework of synthetic differential geometry. As is usual in synthetic differential geometry, its combinatorial nature is emphasized. In particular, the classical Bianchi identity is deduced from its combinatorial one. 
0704.01447	Can Gravity Probe B usefully constrain torsion gravity theories?	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Eanna E. Flanagan, Eran Rosenthal	 Abstract: In most theories of gravity involving torsion, the source for torsion is the intrinsic spin of matter. Since the spins of fermions are normally randomly oriented in macroscopic bodies, the torsion generated is normally negligible. However, in a recent paper, Mao et al. point out that there is a class of theories in which the angular momentum of macroscopic spinning bodies generates a significant amount of torsion. They argue that by the principle of action equals reaction, one would expect the angular momentum of test bodies to couple to a background torsion field, and therefore the precession of the GPB gyroscopes should be affected in these theories by the torsion generated by the Earth. We show that in fact the principle of action equals reaction does not apply to these theories. We examine in detail a generalization of the Hayashi-Shirafuji theory suggested by Mao et al. called Einstein-Hayashi-Shirafuji theory. There are a variety of different versions of this theory, depending on the precise form of the coupling to matter chosen for the torsion. We show that for any coupling to matter that is compatible with the spin transport equation postulated by Mao et al., the theory has either ghosts or an ill-posed initial value formulation. These theoretical problems can be avoided by specializing the parameters of the theory and in addition choosing the standard minimal coupling to matter of the torsion tensor. This yields a consistent theory, but one in which the action equals reaction principle is violated, and in which the angular momentum of the gyroscopes does not couple to the Earth's torsion field. Thus, the Einstein-Hayashi-Shirafuji theory does not predict a detectable torsion signal for Gravity Probe B. There may be other torsion theories which do. 
0704.01448	Structures in the Universe and Origin of Galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:V. A. Rantsev-Kartinov	 Abstract: The analysis of images (of obtained in various ranges of the lengths of waves) of luminous objects in the Universe by means of a method of multilevel dynamic contrasting led author to the conclusions: a) the structures of all observable galaxies represents a complicated constructions which have the tendency to self-similarity and made of separate (basic) blocks, which are a coaxially tubular structures and a cartwheel-like structures; b) the majority of observable objects in the Universe are luminous butt-ends of almost invisible (of almost completely transparent) of filamentary formations which structures are seen only near to their luminous butt-ends; c) the result of analysis of images of cosmic objects show the structure of many pairs of cooperating galaxies point to opportunity of their formation at butt-ends generated in a place of break of the similar filament; d) the interacting galaxies (M 81 and M 82) show they are butt-ends of sawed off of two branches of a treelike filament and their interaction is coming out through this filament; e) as our Universe is in dynamics the processes of formation of stars, galaxies and their congestions can go presently by means of a fracturing of filaments with a corresponding diameters and of the time for their such formation is necessary much less, than along existing standard model. 
0704.01449	The classification ofseparable simple C*-algebras which are inductive  limits of continuous-trace C*-algebraswith spectrum homeomorphic to the  closed interval [0,1]	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:George A. Elliott, Cristian Ivanescu	 Abstract: A classification is given of certain separable nuclear C*-algebras not necessarily of real rank zero, namely, the class of separable simple C*-algebras which are inductive limits of continuous-trace C*-algebras whose building blocks have spectrum homeomorphic to the closed interval [0,1], or to a disjoint union of copies of this space. Also, the range of the invariant is calculated. 
0704.01450	U B V R I Photometry of Stellar Structures throughout the Disk of the  Barred Galaxy NGC 3367	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J.A. Garcia-Barreto, H. Hernandez-Toledo, E. Moreno-Diaz, T. Bernal-Marin (IA-UNAM, Mexico), A.L. Villarreal-Castillo (FC-UNAM, Mexico)	 Abstract: We report new detailed surface U, B, V, R, and I photometry of 81 stellar structures in the disk of the barred galaxy NGC 3367. The images show many different structures indicating that star formation is going on in the most part of the disk. NGC 3367 is known to have a very high concentration of molecular gas distribution in the central regions of the galaxy and bipolar synchrotron emission from the nucleus with two lobes (at 6 kpc) forming a triple structure similar to a radio galaxy. We have determined the U, B, V, R, and I magnitudes and U - B, B - V, U - V, and V - I colors for the central region (nucleus), a region which includes supernovae 2003 AA, and 79 star associations throughout NGC 3367. Estimation of ages of star associations is very difficult due to several factors, among them: filling factor, metallicity, spatial distribution of each structure and the fact that we estimated the magnitudes with a circular aperture of 16 pixels in diameter, equivalent to $6''.8\sim1.4$ kpc. However, if the colors derived for NGC 3367 were similar to the colors expected of star clusters with theoretical evolutionary star tracks developed for the LMC and had a similar metallicity, NGC 3367 show 51 percent of the observed structures with age type SWB I (few tens of Myrs), with seven sources outside the bright surface brightness visible disk of NGC 3367. 
0704.01451	Proton Decay Constraints on Low Scale AdS/CFT Unification	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:James B. Dent, Thomas W. Kephart	 Abstract: Dark matter candidates and proton decay in a class of models based on the AdS/CFT correspondence are discussed. We show that the present bound on the proton decay lifetime is inconsistent with ${\cal N} = 1$ SUSY, and strongly constrains ${\cal N} = 0$ non-SUSY, low scale trinification type unification of orbifolded AdS$\otimes S^5$ models. 
0704.01452	BPS Black Holes	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Bernard de Wit	 Abstract: The entropy of BPS black holes in four space-time dimensions is discussed from both macroscopic and microscopic points of view. 
0704.01453	Structure factors of harmonic and anharmonic Fibonacci chains by  molecular dynamics simulations	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Michael Engel, Steffen Sonntag, Hansjörg Lipp, Hans-Rainer Trebin (Institut für Theoretische und Angewandte Physik, Universität Stuttgart)	 Abstract: The dynamics of quasicrystals is characterized by the existence of phason excitations in addition to the usual phonon modes. In order to investigate their interplay on an elementary level we resort to various one-dimensional model systems. The main observables are the static, the incoherent, and the coherent structure factor, which are extracted from molecular dynamics simulations. For the validation of the algorithms, results for the harmonic periodic chain are presented. We then study the Fibonacci chain with harmonic and anharmonic interaction potentials. In the dynamic Fibonacci chain neighboring atoms interact by double-well potentials allowing for phason flips. The difference between the structure factors of the dynamic and the harmonic Fibonacci chain lies in the temperature dependence of the phonon line width. If a bias is introduced in the well depth, dispersionless optic phonon bands split off. 
0704.01454	Ground-Based Direct Detection of Exoplanets with the Gemini Planet  Imager (GPI)	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:James R. Graham (1), Bruce Macintosh (2), Rene Doyon (3), Don Gavel (4), James Larkin (5), Marty Levine (6), Ben Oppenheimer (7), David Palmer (2), Les Saddlemyer (8), Anand Sivaramakrishnan (7), Jean-Pierre Veran (8), Kent Wallace (6) ((1) UC Berkeley, (2) Lawrence Livermore National Lab, (3) Universite de Montreal, (4) UC Santa Cruz, (5) UCLA, (6) JPL, (7) American Museum of Natural History, (8) NRC/Herzberg Institute)	 Abstract: The Gemini Planet (GPI) imager is an "extreme" adaptive optics system being designed and built for the Gemini Observatory. GPI combines precise and accurate wavefront control, diffraction suppression, and a speckle-suppressing science camera with integral field and polarimetry capabilities. GPI's primary science goal is the direct detection and characterization of young, Jovian-mass exoplanets. For systems younger than 2 Gyr exoplanets more massive than 6 MJ and semimajor axes beyond 10 AU are detected with completeness greater than 50%. GPI will also discover faint debris disks, explore icy moons and minor planets in the solar system, reveal high dynamic range main-sequence binaries, and study mass loss from evolved stars. This white paper explains the role of GPI in exoplanet discovery and characterization and summarizes our recommendations to the NSF-NASA-DOE Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee ExoPlanet Task Force. 
0704.01455	A Better Good-Turing Estimator for Sequence Probabilities	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Aaron B. Wagner, Pramod Viswanath, Sanjeev R. Kulkarni	 Abstract: We consider the problem of estimating the probability of an observed string drawn i.i.d. from an unknown distribution. The key feature of our study is that the length of the observed string is assumed to be of the same order as the size of the underlying alphabet. In this setting, many letters are unseen and the empirical distribution tends to overestimate the probability of the observed letters. To overcome this problem, the traditional approach to probability estimation is to use the classical Good-Turing estimator. We introduce a natural scaling model and use it to show that the Good-Turing sequence probability estimator is not consistent. We then introduce a novel sequence probability estimator that is indeed consistent under the natural scaling model. 
0704.01456	Effective temperature vs line-depth ratio for ELODIE spectra. Gravity  and rotational velocity effects	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K. Biazzo (1,2), A. Frasca (1), S. Catalano (1), E. Marilli (1) ((1) INAF - Catania Astrophysical Observatory, (2) University of Catania)	 Abstract: The dependence on the temperature of photospheric line-depth ratios (LDRs) in the spectral range 6190-6280 A is investigated by using a sample of 174 ELODIE Archive stellar spectra of luminosity class from V to III. The rotational broadening effect on LDRs is also studied. We provide useful calibrations of effective temperature versus LDRs for giant and main sequence stars with 3800<Teff<6000 K and vsini in the range 0-30 km/s. We found that, with the exception of very few line pairs, LDRs, measured at a spectral resolution as high as 42000, depend on vsini and that, by neglecting the rotational broadening effect, one can mistake the Teff determination of 100 K in the worst cases. 
0704.01457	Chaos and Symmetry in String Cosmology	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Thibault Damour	 Abstract: We review the recently discovered interplay between chaos and symmetry in the general inhomogeneous solution of many string-related Einstein-matter systems in the vicinity of a cosmological singularity. The Belinsky-Khalatnikov-Lifshitz-type chaotic behaviour is found, for many Einstein-matter models (notably those related to the low-energy limit of superstring theory and M-theory), to be connected with certain (infinite-dimensional) hyperbolic Kac-Moody algebras. In particular, the billiard chambers describing the asymptotic cosmological behaviour of pure Einstein gravity in spacetime dimension d+1, or the metric-three-form system of 11-dimensional supergravity, are found to be identical to the Weyl chambers of the Lorentzian Kac-Moody algebras AE_d, or E_{10}, respectively. This suggests that these Kac-Moody algebras are hidden symmetries of the corresponding models. There even exists some evidence of a hidden equivalence between the general solution of the Einstein-three-form system and a null geodesic in the infinite dimensional coset space E_{10} / K(E_{10}), where K(E_{10}) is the maximal compact subgroup of E_{10}. 
0704.01458	Radio Emission from the Intermediate-mass Black Hole in the Globular  Cluster G1	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:James S. Ulvestad, Jenny E. Greene, Luis C. Ho	 Abstract: We have used the Very Large Array (VLA) to search for radio emission from the globular cluster G1 (Mayall-II) in M31. G1 has been reported by Gebhardt et al. to contain an intermediate-mass black hole (IMBH) with a mass of ~2 x 10^4 solar masses. Radio emission was detected within an arcsecond of the cluster center with an 8.4 GHz power of 2 x 10^{15} W/Hz. The radio/X-ray ratio of G1 is a few hundred times higher than that expected for a high-mass X-ray binary in the cluster center, but is consistent with the expected value for accretion onto an IMBH with the reported mass. A pulsar wind nebula is also a possible candidate for the radio and X-ray emission from G1; future high-sensitivity VLBI observations might distinguish between this possibility and an IMBH. If the radio source is an IMBH, and similar accretion and outflow processes occur for hypothesized ~ 1000-solar-mass black holes in Milky Way globular clusters, they are within reach of the current VLA and should be detectable easily by the Expanded VLA when it comes on line in 2010. 
0704.01459	Even infinite dimensional real Banach spaces	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Valentin Ferenczi, Eloi Medina Galego	 Abstract: This article is a continuation of a paper of the first author \cite{F} about complex structures on real Banach spaces. We define a notion of even infinite dimensional real Banach space, and prove that there exist even spaces, including HI or unconditional examples from \cite{F} and $C(K)$ examples due to Plebanek \cite{P}. We extend results of \cite{F} relating the set of complex structures up to isomorphism on a real space to a group associated to inessential operators on that space, and give characterizations of even spaces in terms of this group. We also generalize results of \cite{F} about totally incomparable complex structures to essentially incomparable complex structures, while showing that the complex version of a space defined by S. Argyros and A. Manoussakis \cite{AM} provide examples of essentially incomparable complex structures which are not totally incomparable. 
0704.01460	Landau-Lifshitz sigma-models, fermions and the AdS/CFT correspondence	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:B. Stefanski Jr	 Abstract: We define Landau-Lifshitz sigma models on general coset space $G/H$, with $H$ a maximal stability sub-group of $G$. These are non-relativistic models that have $G$-valued N\"other charges, local $H$ invariance and are classically integrable. Using this definition, we construct the $PSU(2,2|4)/PS(U(2|2)^2)$ Landau-Lifshitz sigma-model. This sigma model describes the thermodynamic limit of the spin-chain Hamiltonian obtained from the complete one-loop dilatation operator of the N=4 super Yang-Mills (SYM) theory. In the second part of the paper, we identify a number of consistent truncations of the Type IIB Green-Schwarz action on $AdS_5\times S^5$ whose field content consists of two real bosons and 4,8 or 16 real fermions. We show that $\kappa$-symmetry acts trivially in these sub-sectors. In the context of the large spin limit of the AdS/CFT correspondence, we map the Lagrangians of these sub-sectors to corresponding truncations of the $PSU(2,2|4)/PS(U(2|2)^2)$ Landau-Lifshitz sigma-model. 
0704.01461	Trajectory of neutron$-$neutron$-^{18}C$ excited three-body state	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:M. T. Yamashita, T. Frederico, Lauro Tomio	 Abstract: The trajectory of the first excited Efimov state is investigated by using a renormalized zero-range three-body model for a system with two bound and one virtual two-body subsystems. The approach is applied to $n-n-^{18}$C, where the $n-n$ virtual energy and the three-body ground state are kept fixed. It is shown that such three-body excited state goes from a bound to a virtual state when the $n-^{18}$C binding energy is increased. Results obtained for the $n-^{19}$C elastic cross-section at low energies also show dominance of an $S-$matrix pole corresponding to a bound or virtual Efimov state. It is also presented a brief discussion of these findings in the context of ultracold atom physics with tunable scattering lengths. 
0704.01462	Physical parameters of evolved stars in clusters and in the field from  line-depth ratios	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K. Biazzo (1,2), L. Pasquini (2), A. Frasca (1), L. da Silva (3), L. Girardi (4), A. P. Hatzes (5), J. Setiawan (6), S. Catalano (1), E. Marilli (1) ((1) INAF-OACt, (2) ESO-Garching, (3) ON/MCT, (4) INAF-OAPd, (5) TLS, (6) MPIA-Heidelberg)	 Abstract: We present a high-resolution spectroscopic analysis of two samples of evolved stars selected in the field and in the intermediate-age open cluster IC 4651, for which detailed measurements of chemical composition were made in the last few years. Applying the Gray's method based on ratios of line depths, we determine the effective temperature and compare our results with previous ones obtained by means of the curves of growth of iron lines. The knowledge of the temperature enables us to estimate other fundamental stellar parameters, such as color excess, age, and mass. 
0704.01463	Large deviations of Poisson cluster processes	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Charles Bordenave, Giovanni Luca Torrisi	 Abstract: In this paper we prove scalar and sample path large deviation principles for a large class of Poisson cluster processes. As a consequence, we provide a large deviation principle for ergodic Hawkes point processes. 
0704.01464	Distributed quantum information processing with minimal local resources	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Earl T. Campbell	 Abstract: We present a protocol for growing graph states, the resource for one-way quantum computing, when the available entanglement mechanism is highly imperfect. The distillation protocol is frugal in its use of ancilla qubits, requiring only a single ancilla qubit when the noise is dominated by one Pauli error, and two for a general noise model. The protocol works with such scarce local resources by never post-selecting on the measurement outcomes of purification rounds. We find that such a strategy causes fidelity to follow a biased random walk, and that a target fidelity is likely to be reached more rapidly than for a comparable post-selecting protocol. An analysis is presented of how imperfect local operations limit the attainable fidelity. For example, a single Pauli error rate of 20% can be distilled down to $\sim 10$ times the imperfection in local operations. 
0704.01465	X-Raying the MOJAVE Sample of Compact Extragalactic Radio Jets	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Kadler, G. Sato, J. Tueller, R. M. Sambruna, C. B. Markwardt, P. Giommi, N. Gehrels	 Abstract: The MOJAVE sample is the first large radio-selected, VLBI-monitored AGN sample for which complete X-ray spectral information is being gathered. We report on the status of Swift survey observations which complement the available archival X-ray data at 0.3-10 keV and in the UV with its XRT and UVOT instruments. Many of these 133 radio-brightest AGN in the northern sky are now being observed for the first time at these energies. These and complementary other multi-wavelength observations provide a large statistical sample of radio-selected AGN whose spectral energy distributions are measured from radio to gamma-ray wavelengths, available at the beginning of GLAST operations in 2008. Here, we report the X-ray spectral characteristics of 36 of these previously unobserved MOJAVE sources. In addition, the number of MOJAVE sources detected by the BAT instrument in the hard X-ray band is growing: we report the detection of five new blazars with BAT. 
0704.01466	Sparse Estimators and the Oracle Property, or the Return of Hodges'  Estimator	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Hannes Leeb, Benedikt M. Poetscher	 Abstract: We point out some pitfalls related to the concept of an oracle property as used in Fan and Li (2001, 2002, 2004) which are reminiscent of the well-known pitfalls related to Hodges' estimator. The oracle property is often a consequence of sparsity of an estimator. We show that any estimator satisfying a sparsity property has maximal risk that converges to the supremum of the loss function; in particular, the maximal risk diverges to infinity whenever the loss function is unbounded. For ease of presentation the result is set in the framework of a linear regression model, but generalizes far beyond that setting. In a Monte Carlo study we also assess the extent of the problem in finite samples for the smoothly clipped absolute deviation (SCAD) estimator introduced in Fan and Li (2001). We find that this estimator can perform rather poorly in finite samples and that its worst-case performance relative to maximum likelihood deteriorates with increasing sample size when the estimator is tuned to sparsity. 
0704.01467	Capillary ordering and layering transitions in two-dimensional hard-rod  fluids	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Yuri Martinez-Raton	 Abstract: In this article we calculate the surface phase diagram of a two-dimensional hard-rod fluid confined between two hard lines. In a first stage we study the semi-infinite system consisting of an isotropic fluid in contact with a single hard line. We have found complete wetting by the columnar phase at the wall-isotropic fluid interface. When the fluid is confined between two hard walls, capillary columnar ordering occurs via a first-order phase transition. For higher chemical potentials the system exhibits layering transitions even for very narrow slits (near the one-dimensional limit). The theoretical model used was a density-functional theory based on the Fundamental-Measure Functional applied to a fluid of hard rectangles in the restricted-orientation approximation (Zwanzig model). The results presented here can be checked experimentally in two-dimensional granular media made of rods, where vertical motions induced by an external source and excluded volume interactions between the grains allow the system to explore those stationary states which entropically maximize packing configurations. We claim that some of the surface phenomena found here can be present in two-dimensional granular-media fluids. 
0704.01468	Generation of Entanglement Outside of the Light Cone	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:J.D. Franson	 Abstract: The Feynman propagator has nonzero values outside of the forward light cone. That does not allow messages to be transmitted faster than the speed of light, but it is shown here that it does allow entanglement and mutual information to be generated at space-like separated points. These effects can be interpreted as being due to the propagation of virtual photons outside of the light cone or as a transfer of pre-existing entanglement from the quantum vacuum. The differences between these two interpretations are discussed. 
0704.01469	Monte Carlo Simulations of Quantum Spin Systems in the Valence Bond  Basis	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:A. W. Sandvik, K. S. D. Beach	 Abstract: We discuss a projector Monte Carlo method for quantum spin models formulated in the valence bond basis, using the S=1/2 Heisenberg antiferromagnet as an example. Its singlet ground state can be projected out of an arbitrary basis state as the trial state, but a more rapid convergence can be obtained using a good variational state. As an alternative to first carrying out a time consuming variational Monte Carlo calculation, we show that a very good trial state can be generated in an iterative fashion in the course of the simulation itself. We also show how the properties of the valence bond basis enable calculations of quantities that are difficult to obtain with the standard basis of Sz eigenstates. In particular, we discuss quantities involving finite-momentum states in the triplet sector, such as the dispersion relation and the spectral weight of the lowest triplet. 
0704.01470	N-dimensional sl(2)-coalgebra spaces with non-constant curvature	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Angel Ballesteros, Alberto Enciso, Francisco J. Herranz, Orlando Ragnisco	 Abstract: An infinite family of ND spaces endowed with sl(2)-coalgebra symmetry is introduced. For all these spaces the geodesic flow is superintegrable, and the explicit form of their common set of integrals is obtained from the underlying sl(2)-coalgebra structure. In particular, ND spherically symmetric spaces with Euclidean signature are shown to be sl(2)-coalgebra spaces. As a byproduct of this construction we present ND generalizations of the classical Darboux surfaces, thus obtaining remarkable superintegrable ND spaces with non-constant curvature. 
0704.01471	The Generalized PT-Symmetric Sinh-Gordon Potential Solvable within  Quantum Hamilton-Jacobi Formalism	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Ozlem Yesiltas, S. Bilge Ocak	 Abstract: The generalized Sinh-Gordon potential is solved within quantum Hamiltonian Jacobi approach in the framework of PT symmetry. The quasi exact solutions of energy eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the generalized Sinh-Gordon potential are found for n=0,1 states. 
0704.01472	Emergence of U(1) symmetry in the 3D XY model with Zq anisotropy	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Jie Lou, Anders W. Sandvik, Leon Balents	 Abstract: We study the three-dimensional XY model with a Z_q anisotropic term. At temperatures T < Tc this dangerously irrelevant perturbation is relevant only above a length scale Lambda, which diverges as a power of the correlation length; Lambda ~ xi^a_q. Below Lambda the order parameter is U(1) symmetric. We derive the full scaling function controlling the emergence of U(1) symmetry and use Monte Carlo results to extract the exponent a_q for q=4,...,8. We find that a_q = a_4 (q/4)^2, with a_4 only marginally larger than 1. We discuss these results in the context of U(1) symmetry at "deconfined" quantum critical points separating antiferromagnetic and valence-bond-solid states in quantum spin systems. 
0704.01473	Existence of Universal Entangler	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Jianxin Chen, Runyao Duan, Zhengfeng Ji, Mingsheng Ying, Jun Yu	 Abstract: A gate is called entangler if it transforms some (pure) product states to entangled states. A universal entangler is a gate which transforms all product states to entangled states. In practice, a universal entangler is a very powerful device for generating entanglements, and thus provides important physical resources for accomplishing many tasks in quantum computing and quantum information. This Letter demonstrates that a universal entangler always exists except for a degenerated case. Nevertheless, the problem how to find a universal entangler remains open. 
0704.01474	Fan-shaped and toric textures of mesomorphic oxadiazoles	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:A. Sparavigna, A. Mello, B. Montrucchio	 Abstract: When a family of non symmetrical heterocycled compounds is investigated, a variety of mesophases can be observed with rather different features. Here we report the behaviour of seven different members among a family of such materials, that consists of mesomorphic oxadiazole compounds. In two of these compounds, the optical microscope investigation shows very interesting behaviours. In their smectic phases, fan-shaped and toric textures, sometimes with periodic instability, are observed. Moreover, the nematic phase displays a texture transition. Texture transitions have been previously observed only inside the nematic phase of some compounds belonging to the families of the oxybenzoic and cyclohexane acids. In these two oxadiazole compounds we can observe what we define as a "toric nematic phase", heating the samples from the smectic phase. The toric nematic texture disappears as the sample is further heated, changing into a smooth texture. 
0704.01475	Williams' decomposition of the Lévy continuous random tree and  simultaneous extinction probability for populations with neutral mutations	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Romain Abraham (MAPMO), Jean-François Delmas (CERMICS)	 Abstract: We consider an initial Eve-population and a population of neutral mutants, such that the total population dies out in finite time. We describe the evolution of the Eve-population and the total population with continuous state branching processes, and the neutral mutation procedure can be seen as an immigration process with intensity proportional to the size of the population. First we establish a Williams' decomposition of the genealogy of the total population given by a continuous random tree, according to the ancestral lineage of the last individual alive. This allows us give a closed formula for the probability of simultaneous extinction of the Eve-population and the total population. 
0704.01476	TeV-scale gravity in Horava-Witten theory on a compact complex  hyperbolic threefold	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Chris Austin	 Abstract: The field equations and boundary conditions of Horava-Witten theory, compactified on a smooth compact spin quotient of CH^3, where CH^3 denotes the hyperbolic cousin of CP^3, are studied in the presence of Casimir energy density terms. If the Casimir energy densities near one boundary result in a certain constant of integration taking a value greater than around 10^5 in units of the d = 11 gravitational length, a form of thick pipe geometry is found that realizes TeV-scale gravity by the ADD mechanism, with that boundary becoming the inner surface of the thick pipe, where we live. Three alternative ways in which the outer surface of the thick pipe might be stabilized consistent with the observed value of the effective d = 4 cosmological constant are considered. In the first alternative, the outer surface is stabilized in the classical region and the constant of integration is fixed at around 10^{13} in units of the d = 11 gravitational length for consistency with the observed cosmological constant. In the second alternative, the four observed dimensions have reduced in size down to the d = 11 gravitational length at the outer surface, and there are Casimir effects near the outer surface. In the third alternative, the outer surface is stabilized in the classical region by extra fluxes of the three-form gauge field, whose four-form field strength wraps three-cycles of the compact six-manifold times the radial dimension of the thick pipe. Some problems related to fitting the strong/electroweak Standard Model are considered. 
0704.01477	Balance of forces in simulated bilayers	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:J. Stecki	 Abstract: Two kinds of simulated bilayers are described and the results are reported for lateral tension and for partial contributions of intermolecular forces to it.Data for a widest possible range of areas per surfactant head, from tunnel formation through tensionless state, transition to floppy bilayer,to its disintegration, are reported and discussed. The significance of the tensionless state, is discussed. Conclusions: (1) the tensionless state is a coincidence;(2) the transition from extended to floppy bilayer occurs nearby and has hallmarks of a phase transition (3) there is no theory of that transition.(4)The lateral tension of the floppy bilayer scales with size; that of the extended bilayer does not depend on size. (4) The drumhead model not appropriate for interfaces as these fluctuate via diffusion.(5) The radius of gyration also! shows a discontinuity. 
0704.01478	Search for the radiative leptonic decay B+ --> gamma l+ nu	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:The BABAR Collaboration, B. Aubert, et al	 Abstract: We present the results of a search for $B^{+}\to\gamma \ell^{+}\nu_{\ell}$, where $\ell = e, \mu$. We use a sample of 232 million $B\bar{B}$ pairs recorded at the $\Upsilon(4S)$ with the BaBar detector at the PEP-II $B$ Factory. We measure a partial branching fraction $\Delta\mathcal{B}$ in a restricted region of phase space that reduces the effect of theoretical uncertainties, requiring the lepton energy to be between 1.875 and 2.850GeV, the photon energy to be between 0.45 and 2.35GeV, and the cosine of the angle between the lepton and photon momenta to be less than -0.36, with all quantities computed in the $\Upsilon(4S)$ center-of-mass frame. We find $\Delta\mathcal{B}(B^{+}\to\gamma \ell^{+}\nu_{\ell}) = (-0.3^{+1.3}_{-1.5} ({stat}) \pm 0.6 ({syst}) \pm 0.1 ({th})) \times 10^{-6}$, assuming lepton universality. Interpreted as a 90% C.L. Bayesian upper limit, the result corresponds to $1.7\times10^{-6}$ for a prior flat in amplitude, and $2.3\times10^{-6}$ for a prior flat in branching fraction. 
0704.01479	Possible experimental manifestations of the many-body localization	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:D. M. Basko, I. L. Aleiner, B. L. Altshuler	 Abstract: Recently, it was predicted that if all one-electron states in a non-interacting disordered system are localized, the interaction between electrons in the absence of coupling to phonons leads to a finite-temperature metal-insulator trnasition. Here we show that even in the presence of a weak coupling to phonons the transition manifests itself (i) in the nonlinear conduction, leading to a bistable $I$-$V$ curve, (ii) by a dramatic enhancement of the nonequilibrium current noise near the transition. 
0704.01480	Magnetic structure of Sm2IrIn8	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:C. Adriano, R. Lora-Serrano, C. Giles, F. de Bergevin, J. C. Lang, G. Srajer, C. Mazzoli, L. Paolasini, P. G. Pagliuso	 Abstract: The magnetic structure of the intermetallic antiferromagnet Sm2IrIn8 was determined using x-ray resonant magnetic scattering (XRMS). Below TN = 14.2, Sm2IrIn8 has a commensurate antiferromagnetic structure with a propagation vector (1/2,0,0). The Sm magnetic moments lie in the ab plane and are rotated roughly 18 degrees away from the a axis. The magnetic structure of this compound was obtained by measuring the strong dipolar resonant peak whose enhancement was of over two orders of magnitude at the L2 edge. At the L3 edge both quadrupolar and dipolar features were observed in the energy line shape. The magnetic structure and properties of Sm2IrIn8 are found to be consistent with the general trend already seen for the Nd-, Tb- and the Ce-based compounds from the RmMnIn3m+2n family (R = rare earth; M=Rh or Ir, m = 1, 2; n = 0, 1), where the crystalline electrical field (CEF) effects determine the direction of magnetic moments and the TN evolution in the series. The measured Neel temperature for Sm2IrIn8 is slightly suppressed when compared to the TN of the parent cubic compound SmIn3. 
0704.01481	TEXES Observations of Pure Rotational H2 Emission From AB Aurigae	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M.A. Bitner, M.J. Richter, J.H. Lacy, T.K. Greathouse, D.T. Jaffe, G.A. Blake	 Abstract: We present observations of pure rotational molecular hydrogen emission from the Herbig Ae star, AB Aurigae. Our observations were made using the Texas Echelon Cross Echelle Spectrograph (TEXES) at the NASA Infrared Telescope Facility and the Gemini North Observatory. We searched for H2 emission in the S(1), S(2), and S(4) lines at high spectral resolution and detected all three. By fitting a simple model for the emission in the three transitions, we derive T = 670 +/- 40 K and M = 0.52 +/- 0.15 earth masses for the emitting gas. Based on the 8.5 km/s FWHM of the S(2) line, assuming the emission comes from the circumstellar disk, and with an inclination estimate of the AB Aur system taken from the literature, we place the location for the emission near 18 AU. Comparison of our derived temperature to a disk structure model suggests that UV and X-ray heating are important in heating the disk atmosphere. 
0704.01482	Deciphering top flavor violation at the LHC with B factories	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Patrick J. Fox, Zoltan Ligeti, Michele Papucci, Gilad Perez, Matthew D. Schwartz	 Abstract: The LHC will have unprecedented sensitivity to flavor-changing neutral current (FCNC) top quark decays, whose observation would be a clear sign of physics beyond the standard model. Although many details of top flavor violation are model dependent, the standard model gauge symmetries relate top FCNCs to other processes, which are strongly constrained by existing data. We study these constraints in a model independent way, using a low energy effective theory from which the new physics is integrated out. We consider the most important operators which contribute to top FCNCs and analyze the current constraints on them. We find that the data rule out top FCNCs at a level observable at the LHC due to most of the operators comprising left-handed first or second generation quark fields, while there remains a substantial window for top decays mediated by operators with right-handed charm or up quarks. If FCNC top decays are observed at the LHC, such an analysis may help decipher the underlying physics. 
0704.01483	Exploring Infrared Properties of Giant Low Surface Brightness Galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nurur Rahman, Justin H. Howell, George Helou, Joseph M. Mazzarella, Brent Buckalew (IPAC/Caltech)	 Abstract: Abridged: We present analysis of Spitzer Space Telescope observations of the three low surface brightness (LSB) optical giant galaxies Malin 1, UGC 6614 and UGC 9024. Mid- and far-infrared morphology, spectral energy distributions, and integrated colors are used to derive the dust mass, dust-to-gas mass ratio, total infrared luminosity, and star formation rate (SFR). The 8 micron images indicate that polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon molecules are present in the central regions of all three metal-poor LSB galaxies. The diffuse optical disks of Malin 1 and UGC 9024 remain undetected at mid- and far-infrared wavelengths. The dustiest of the three LSB galaxies, UGC 6614, has infrared morphology that varies significantly with wavelength. The 8 and 24 micron emission is co-spatial with H\alpha emission previously observed in the outer ring of UGC 6614. The estimated dust-to-gas ratios, from less than 10^{-3} to 10^{-2}, support previous indications that the LSB galaxies are relatively dust poor compared to the HSB galaxies. The total infrared luminosities are approximately 1/3 to 1/2 the blue band luminosities, suggesting that old stellar populations are the primary source of dust heating in these LSB objects. The SFR estimated from the infrared data ranges ~0.01-0.88 M_sun yr^{-1}, consistent with results from optical studies. 
0704.01484	One-time pad booster for Internet	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Geraldo A. Barbosa	 Abstract: One-time pad encrypted files can be sent through Internet channels using current Internet protocols. However, the need for renewing shared secret keys make this method unpractical. This work shows how users can use a fast physical random generator based on fluctuations of a light field and the Internet channel to directly boost key renewals. The transmitted signals are deterministic but carries imprinted noise that cannot be eliminated by the attacker. Thus, a one-time pad for Internet can be made practical. Security is achieved without third parties and not relying on the difficulty of factoring numbers in primes. An informational fragility to be avoided is discussed. Information-theoretic analysis is presented and bounds for secure operation are determined. 
0704.01485	A Local Concept of Wave Velocities	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:I.V. Drozdov, A.A. Stahlhofen	 Abstract: The classical characterization of \wp, as a typical concept for far field phenomena, has been successfully applied to many \w phenomena in past decades. The recent reports of superluminal tunnelling times and negative group velocities challenged this concept. A new local approach for the definition of \wvs avoiding these difficulties while including the classical definitions as particular cases is proposed here. This generalisation of the conventional non-local approach can be applied to arbitrary \w forms and propagation media. Some applications of the formalism are presented and basic properties of the concept are summarized. 
0704.01486	Nodal/Antinodal Dichotomy and the Two Gaps of a Superconducting Doped  Mott Insulator	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:M. Civelli, M. Capone, A. Georges, K. Haule, O. Parcollet, T. D. Stanescu, G. Kotliar	 Abstract: We study the superconducting state of the hole-doped two-dimensional Hubbard model using Cellular Dynamical Mean Field Theory, with the Lanczos method as impurity solver. In the under-doped regime, we find a natural decomposition of the one-particle (photoemission) energy-gap into two components. The gap in the nodal regions, stemming from the anomalous self-energy, decreases with decreasing doping. The antinodal gap has an additional contribution from the normal component of the self-energy, inherited from the normal-state pseudogap, and it increases as the Mott insulating phase is approached. 
0704.01487	Wavelet frames, Bergman spaces and Fourier transforms of Laguerre  functions	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Luis Daniel Abreu	 Abstract: The Fourier transforms of Laguerre functions play the same canonical role in wavelet analysis as do the Hermite functions in Gabor analysis. We will use them as analyzing wavelets in a similar way the Hermite functions were recently by K. Groechenig and Y. Lyubarskii in "Gabor frames with Hermite functions, C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris, Ser. I 344 157-162 (2007)". Building on the work of K. Seip, "Beurling type density theorems in the unit disc, Invent. Math., 113, 21-39 (1993)", concerning sampling sequences on weighted Bergman spaces, we find a sufficient density condition for constructing frames by translations and dilations of the Fourier transform of the nth Laguerre function. As in Groechenig-Lyubarskii theorem, the density increases with n, and in the special case of the hyperbolic lattice in the upper half plane it is given by b\log a<\frac{4\pi}{2n+\alpha}, where alpha is the parameter of the Laguerre function. 
0704.01488	On Beltrami fields with nonconstant proportionality factor on the plane	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Vladislav V. Kravchenko, Hector Oviedo	 Abstract: We consider the equation rotB+aB=0 (1) in the plane with a being a real-valued function and show that it can be reduced to a Vekua equation of a special form. In the case when a depends on one Cartesian variable a complete system of exact solutions of the Vekua equation and hence of equation (1) is constructed based on L. Bers' theory of formal powers. 
0704.01489	Where the monotone pattern (mostly) rules	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Miklos Bona	 Abstract: We consider pattern containment and avoidance with a very tight definition that was used first by Riordan more than 60 years ago. Using this definition, we prove the monotone pattern is easier to avoid than almost any other pattern of the same length. We also show that with this definition, almost all patterns of length $k$ are avoided by the same number of permutations of length $n$. The corresponding statements are not known to be true for more relaxed definitions of pattern containment. This is the first time we know of that expectations are used to compare numbers of permutations avoiding certain patterns. 
0704.01490	Staggered Heavy Baryon Chiral Perturbation Theory	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:Jon A. Bailey	 Abstract: Although taste violations significantly affect the results of staggered calculations of pseudoscalar and heavy-light mesonic quantities, those entering staggered calculations of baryonic quantities have not been quantified. Here I develop staggered chiral perturbation theory in the light-quark baryon sector by mapping the Symanzik action into heavy baryon chiral perturbation theory. For 2+1 dynamical quark flavors, the masses of flavor-symmetric nucleons are calculated to third order in partially quenched and fully dynamical staggered chiral perturbation theory. To this order the expansion includes the leading chiral logarithms, which come from loops with virtual decuplet-like states, as well as terms the order of the cubed pion mass, which come from loops with virtual octet-like states. Taste violations enter through the meson propagators in loops and tree-level terms the order of the squared lattice spacing. The pattern of taste symmetry breaking and the resulting degeneracies and mixings are discussed in detail. The resulting chiral forms are appropriate to lattice results obtained with operators already in use and could be used to study the restoration of taste symmetry in the continuum limit. I assume that the fourth root of the fermion determinant can be incorporated in staggered chiral perturbation theory using the replica method. 
0704.01491	Imaging Magnetic Focusing of Coherent Electron Waves	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:K.E. Aidala, R.E. Parrott, T. Kramer, E.J. Heller, R.M. Westervelt, M.P. Hanson, A.C. Gossard	 Abstract: The magnetic focusing of electrons has proven its utility in fundamental studies of electron transport. Here we report the direct imaging of magnetic focusing of electron waves, specifically in a two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG). We see the semicircular trajectories of electrons as they bounce along a boundary in the 2DEG, as well as fringes showing the coherent nature of the electron waves. Imaging flow in open systems is made possible by a cooled scanning probe microscope. Remarkable agreement between experiment and theory demonstrates our ability to see these trajectories and to use this system as an interferometer. We image branched electron flow as well as the interference of electron waves. This technique can visualize the motion of electron waves between two points in an open system, providing a straightforward way to study systems that may be useful for quantum information processing and spintronics. 
0704.01492	On the solution of the static Maxwell system in axially symmetric  inhomogeneous media	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Kira V. Khmelnytskaya, Vladislav V. Kravchenko, Hector Oviedo	 Abstract: We consider the static Maxwell system with an axially symmetric dielectric permittivity and construct complete systems of its solutions which can be used for analytic and numerical solution of corresponding boundary value problems. 
0704.01493	On a {K_4,K_{2,2,2}}-ultrahomogeneous graph	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Italo J. Dejter	 Abstract: The existence of a connected 12-regular $\{K_4,K_{2,2,2}\}$-ultrahomogeneous graph $G$ is established, (i.e. each isomorphism between two copies of $K_4$ or $K_{2,2,2}$ in $G$ extends to an automorphism of $G$), with the 42 ordered lines of the Fano plane taken as vertices. This graph $G$ can be expressed in a unique way both as the edge-disjoint union of 42 induced copies of $K_4$ and as the edge-disjoint union of 21 induced copies of $K_{2,2,2}$, with no more copies of $K_4$ or $K_{2,2,2}$ existing in $G$. Moreover, each edge of $G$ is shared by exactly one copy of $K_4$ and one of $K_{2,2,2}$. While the line graphs of $d$-cubes, ($3\le d\in\ZZ$), are $\{K_d, K_{2,2}\}$-ultrahomogeneous, $G$ is not even line-graphical. In addition, the chordless 6-cycles of $G$ are seen to play an interesting role and some self-dual configurations associated to $G$ with 2-arc-transitive, arc-transitive and semisymmetric Levi graphs are considered. 
0704.01494	Unconventional approaches to combine optical transparency with  electrical conductivity	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:J.E. Medvedeva	 Abstract: Combination of electrical conductivity and optical transparency in the same material -- known to be a prerogative of only a few oxides of post-transition metals, such as In, Sn, Zn and Cd -- manifests itself in a distinctive band structure of the transparent conductor host. While the oxides of other elements with $s^2$ electronic configuration, for example, Mg, Ca, Sc and Al, also exhibit the desired optical and electronic features, they have not been considered as candidates for achieving good electrical conductivity because of the challenges of efficient carrier generation in these wide-bandgap materials. Here we demonstrate that alternative approaches to the problem not only allow attaining the transport and optical properties which compete with those in currently utilized transparent conducting oxides (TCO), but also significantly broaden the range of materials with a potential of being developed into novel functional transparent conductors. 
0704.01495	Exponential Decay of Correlations for Randomly Chosen Hyperbolic Toral  Automorphisms	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Arvind Ayyer, Mikko Stenlund	 Abstract: We consider pairs of toral automorphisms (A,B) satisfying an invariant cone property. At each iteration, A acts with probability p and B with probability 1-p. We prove exponential decay of correlations for a class of Holder continuous observables. 
0704.01496	Follow-up observations of pulsating subdwarf B stars: Multisite  campaigns on PG 1618+563B and PG 0048+091	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M.D. Reed, S.J. O'Toole, D.M. Terndrup, J.R. Eggen, A.-Y. Zhou, D. An, C.-W. Chen, W.P. Chen, H.-C. Lin, C. Akan, O. Cakirli, H. Worters, D. Kilkenny, M. Siwak, S. Zola, Seung-Lee Kim, G.A. Gelven, S.L. Harms, G.W. Wolf	 Abstract: We present follow-up observations of pulsating subdwarf B (sdB) stars as part of our efforts to resolve the pulsation spectra for use in asteroseismological analyses. This paper reports on multisite campaigns of the pulsating sdB stars PG 1618+563B and PG 0048+091. Data were obtained from observatories placed around the globe for coverage from all longitudes. For PG 1618+563B, our five-site campaign uncovered a dichotomy of pulsation states: Early during the campaign the amplitudes and phases (and perhaps frequencies) were quite variable while data obtained late in the campaign were able to fully resolve five stable pulsation frequencies. For PG 0048+091, our five-site campaign uncovered a plethora of frequencies with short pulsation lifetimes. We find them to have observed properties consistent with stochastically excited oscillations, an unexpected result for subdwarf B stars. We discuss our findings and their impact on subdwarf B asteroseismology. 
0704.01497	Connecting microscopic simulations with kinetically constrained models  of glasses	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Matthew T. Downton, Malcolm P. Kennett	 Abstract: Kinetically constrained spin models are known to exhibit dynamical behavior mimicking that of glass forming systems. They are often understood as coarse-grained models of glass formers, in terms of some "mobility" field. The identity of this "mobility" field has remained elusive due to the lack of coarse-graining procedures to obtain these models from a more microscopic point of view. Here we exhibit a scheme to map the dynamics of a two-dimensional soft disc glass former onto a kinetically constrained spin model, providing an attempt at bridging these two approaches. 
0704.01498	DIRBE Minus 2MASS: Confirming the CIRB in 40 New Regions at 2.2 and 3.5  Microns	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:L.R. Levenson, E.L. Wright (UCLA), B.D. Johnson (Columbia)	 Abstract: With the release of the 2MASS All-Sky Point Source Catalog, stellar fluxes from 2MASS are used to remove the contribution due to Galactic stars from the intensity measured by DIRBE in 40 new regions in the North and South Galactic polar caps. After subtracting the interplanetary and Galactic foregrounds, a consistent residual intensity of 14.69 +/- 4.49 kJy/sr at 2.2 microns is found. Allowing for a constant calibration factor between the DIRBE 3.5 microns and the 2MASS 2.2 microns fluxes, a similar analysis leaves a residual intensity of 15.62 +/- 3.34 kJy/sr at 3.5 microns. The intercepts of the DIRBE minus 2MASS correlation at 1.25 microns show more scatter and are a smaller fraction of the foreground, leading to a still weak limit on the CIRB of 8.88 +/- 6.26 kJy/sr (1 sigma). 
0704.01499	Averaging of the electron effective mass in multicomponent transparent  conducting oxides	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:J.E. Medvedeva	 Abstract: We find that layered materials composed of various oxides of cations with $s^2$ electronic configuration, $XY_2$O$_4$, $X$=In or Sc, $Y$=Ga, Zn, Al, Cd and/or Mg, exhibit isotropic electron effective mass which can be obtained via averaging over those of the corresponding single-cation oxide constituents. This effect is due to a hybrid nature of the conduction band formed from the s-states of {\it all} cations and the oxygen p-states. Moreover, the observed insensitivity of the electron effective mass to the oxygen coordination and to the distortions in the cation-oxygen chains suggests that similar behavior can be expected in technologically important amorphous state. These findings significantly broaden the range of materials as efficient transparent conductor hosts. 
0704.01500	A Search for Electron Neutrino Appearance at the Delta m**2 ~ 1 eV**2  Scale	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:The MiniBooNE Collaboration	 Abstract: The MiniBooNE Collaboration reports first results of a search for $\nu_e$ appearance in a $\nu_\mu$ beam. With two largely independent analyses, we observe no significant excess of events above background for reconstructed neutrino energies above 475 MeV. The data are consistent with no oscillations within a two neutrino appearance-only oscillation model. 
0704.01501	Surface Structure Analysis of Atomically Smooth BaBiO$_3$ Films	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:A. Gozar, G. Logvenov, V. Y. Butko, I. Bozovic	 Abstract: Using low energy Time-of-Flight Scattering and Recoil Spectroscopy (TOF-SARS) and Mass Spectroscopy of Recoiled Ions (MSRI) we analyze the surface structure of an atomically smooth BaBiO$_3$ film grown by molecular beam epitaxy. We demonstrate high sensitivity of the TOF-SARS and MSRI spectra to slight changes in the orientation of the ion scattering plane with respect to the crystallographic axes. The observed angle dependence allows us to clearly identify the termination layer as BiO$_2$. Our data also indicate that angle-resolved MSRI data can be used for high resolution studies of surface structure of complex oxide thin films. 
0704.01502	Evolution of Magnetic Fields in Stars Across the Upper Main Sequence:  II. Observed distribution of the magnetic field geometry	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Hubrig, P. North, M. Schoeller	 Abstract: We re-discuss the evolutionary state of upper main sequence magnetic stars using a sample of Ap and Bp stars with accurate Hipparcos parallaxes and definitely determined longitudinal magnetic fields. We confirm our previous results obtained from the study of Ap and Bp stars with accurate measurements of the mean magnetic field modulus and mean quadratic magnetic fields that magnetic stars of mass M < 3 M_sun are concentrated towards the centre of the main-sequence band. In contrast, stars with masses M > 3 M_sun seem to be concentrated closer to the ZAMS. The study of a few known members of nearby open clusters with accurate Hipparcos parallaxes confirms these conclusions. Stronger magnetic fields tend to be found in hotter, younger and more massive stars, as well as in stars with shorter rotation periods. No evidence is found for any loss of angular momentum during the main-sequence life. The magnetic flux remains constant over the stellar life time on the main sequence. An excess of stars with large obliquities beta is detected in both higher and lower mass stars. The obliquity angle distribution as inferred from the distribution of r-values appears random at the time magnetic stars become observable on the H-R diagram. After quite a short time spent on the main sequence, the obliquity angle beta tends to reach values close to either 90 deg or 0 deg for M < 3 M_sun. The evolution of the obliquity angle beta seems to be somewhat different for low and high mass stars. While we find a strong hint for an increase of beta with the elapsed time on the main sequence for stars with M > 3 M_sun, no similar trend is found for stars with M < 3 M_sun. However, the predominance of high values of beta at advanced ages in these stars is notable. 
0704.01503	A Diagrammatic Category for the Representation Theory of U_q(sl_n)	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Scott Morrison	 Abstract: This thesis provides a partial answer to a question posed by Greg Kuperberg in q-alg/9712003 and again by Justin Roberts as problem 12.18 in "Problems on invariants of knots and 3-manifolds", math.GT/0406190, essentially: "Can one describe the category of representations of the quantum group U_q(sl_n) (thought of as a spherical category) via generators and relations?" For each n \geq 0, I define a certain tensor category of trivalent graphs, modulo isotopy, and construct a functor from this category onto (a full subcategory of) the category of representations of the quantum group U_q(sl_n). One would like to describe completely the kernel of this functor, by providing generators. The resulting quotient of the diagrammatic category would then be a category equivalent to the representation category of U_q(sl_n). I make significant progress towards this, describing certain generators of the kernel, and some obstructions to further elements. It remains a conjecture that these relations generate the kernel. My results extend those of q-alg/9712003, MR1659228, math.QA/0310143 and math.GT/0506403. The argument is essentially by constructing a diagrammatic version of the forgetful functor coming from the inclusion of U_q(sl_{n-1}) in U_q(sl_n}. We know this functor is faithful, so a diagram is in the kernel for n exactly if its image under the diagrammatic forgetful functor is in the kernel for n-1. This allows us to perform inductive calculations, both establishing families of elements of the kernel, and finding obstructions. 
0704.01504	The Formation of Lake Stars	Geophysics (physics.geo-ph)	Authors:Victor C. Tsai, J. S. Wettlaufer	 Abstract: Star patterns, reminiscent of a wide range of diffusively controlled growth forms from snowflakes to Saffman-Taylor fingers, are ubiquitous features of ice covered lakes. Despite the commonality and beauty of these ``lake stars'' the underlying physical processes that produce them have not been explained in a coherent theoretical framework. Here we describe a simple mathematical model that captures the principal features of lake-star formation; radial fingers of (relatively warm) water-rich regions grow from a central source and evolve through a competition between thermal and porous media flow effects in a saturated snow layer covering the lake. The number of star arms emerges from a stability analysis of this competition and the qualitative features of this meter-scale natural phenomena are captured in laboratory experiments. 
0704.01505	A Higgs-Higgs bound state due to New Physics at a TeV	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Benjamin Grinstein, Michael Trott	 Abstract: We examine the effects of new physics effecting the Higgs sector of the standard model, focusing on the effects on the Higgs self couplings. We demonstrate that a low mass higgs, m_h < 2 m_t, can have a strong effective self coupling due to the effects of a new interaction at a TeV. We investigate the possibility that the first evidence of such an interaction could be a higgs-higgs bound state. To this end, we construct an effective field theory formalism to examine the physics of such a low mass higgs boson. We explore the possibility of a non relativistic bound state of the higgs field (Higgsium) at LHC and construct a non relativistic effective field theory of the higgs sector that is appropriate for such studies (NRHET). 
0704.01506	Measuring two-photon orbital angular momentum entanglement	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:G. F. Calvo, A. Picón, A. Bramon	 Abstract: We put forward an approach to estimate the amount of bipartite spatial entanglement of down-converted photon states correlated in orbital angular momentum and the magnitude of the transverse (radial) wave vectors. Both degrees of freedom are properly considered in our framework, which only requires azimuthal local linear optical transformations and mode selection analysis with two fiber detectors. The coincidence distributions predicted by our approach give an excellent fit to the distributions measured in a recent experiment aimed to show the very high-dimensional transverse entanglement of twin photons from a down-conversion source. Our estimate for the Schmidt number is substantially lower but still confirms the presence of high-dimensional entanglement. 
0704.01507	HST/ACS Coronagraphic Observations of the Dust Surrounding HD 100546	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D.R. Ardila, D.A. Golimowski, J.E. Krist, M. Clampin, H.C. Ford, G.D. Illingworth	 Abstract: We present ACS/HST coronagraphic observations of HD 100546, a B9.5 star, 103 pc away from the sun, taken in the F435W, F606W, and F814W bands. Scattered light is detected up to 14'' from the star. The observations are consistent with the presence of an extended flattened nebula with the same inclination as the inner disk. The well-known ``spiral arms'' are clearly observed and they trail the rotating disk material. Weaker arms never before reported are also seen. The inter-arm space becomes brighter, but the structures become more neutral in color at longer wavelengths, which is not consistent with models that assume that they are due to the effects of a warped disk. Along the major disk axis, the colors of the scattered-light relative to the star are \Delta (F435W-F606W) ~ 0.0--0.2 mags and \Delta (F435W-F814W)~0.5--1 mags. To explain these colors, we explore the role of asymmetric scattering, reddening, and large minimum sizes on ISM-like grains. We conclude each of these hypotheses by itself cannot explain the colors. The disk colors are similar to those derived for Kuiper Belt objects, suggesting that the same processes responsible for their colors may be at work here. We argue that we are observing only the geometrically thick, optically thin envelope of the disk, while the optically thick disk responsible for the far-IR emission is undetected. The observed spiral arms are then structures on this envelope. The colors indicate that the extended nebulosity is not a remnant of the infalling envelope but reprocessed disk material. 
0704.01508	Anomalous diffusion and stretched exponentials in heterogeneous  glass-forming liquids: Low-temperature behavior	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:J. S. Langer, S. Mukhopadhyay	 Abstract: We propose a model of a heterogeneous glass forming liquid and compute the low-temperature behavior of a tagged molecule moving within it. This model exhibits stretched-exponential decay of the wavenumber-dependent, self intermediate scattering function in the limit of long times. At temperatures close to the glass transition, where the heterogeneities are much larger in extent than the molecular spacing, the time dependence of the scattering function crosses over from stretched-exponential decay with an index $b=1/2$ at large wave numbers to normal, diffusive behavior with $b = 1$ at small wavenumbers. There is a clear separation between early-stage, cage-breaking $\beta$ relaxation and late-stage $\alpha$ relaxation. The spatial representation of the scattering function exhibits an anomalously broad exponential (non-Gaussian) tail for sufficiently large values of the molecular displacement at all finite times. 
0704.01509	Modeling the Solar Chromosphere	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Carlsson	 Abstract: Spectral diagnostic features formed in the solar chromosphere are few and difficult to interpret -- they are neither formed in the optically thin regime nor in local thermodynamic equilibrium (LTE). To probe the state of the chromosphere, both from observations and theory, it is therefore necessary with modeling. I discuss both traditional semi-empirical modeling, numerical experiments illustrating important ingredients necessary for a self-consistent theoretical modeling of the solar chromosphere and the first results of such models. 
0704.01510	A compact star rotating at 1122 Hz and the r-mode instability	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Alessandro Drago (Univ. Ferrara and INFN sez. Ferrara, Italy)Giuseppe Pagliara (Inst. Theoretische Physik, Goethe Universitaet, Frankfurt am Main, Germany and INFN Italy), Irene Parenti (Univ. Ferrara and INFN sez. Ferrara, Italy)	 Abstract: We show that r-mode instabilities severely constraint the composition of a compact star rotating at a submillisecond period. In particular, the only viable astrophysical scenario for such an object, present inside the Low Mass X-ray Binary associated with the x-ray transient XTE J1739-285, is that it has a strangeness content. Since previous analysis indicate that hyperonic stars or stars containing a kaon condensate are not good candidates, the only remaining possibility is that such an object is either a strange quark star or a hybrid quark-hadron star. We also discuss under which conditions sub-millisecond pulsars are rare. 
0704.01511	3d Numerical Models of the Chromosphere, Transition Region, and Corona	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Viggo H. Hansteen, Mats Carlsson, Boris Gudiksen	 Abstract: A major goal in solar physics has during the last five decades been to find how energy flux generated in the solar convection zone is transported and dissipated in the outer solar layers. Progress in this field has been slow and painstaking. However, advances in computer hardware and numerical methods, vastly increased observational capabilities and growing physical insight seem finally to be leading towards understanding. Here we present exploratory numerical MHD models that span the entire solar atmosphere from the upper convection zone to the lower corona. These models include non-grey, non-LTE radiative transport in the photosphere and chromosphere, optically thin radiative losses as well as magnetic field-aligned heat conduction in the transition region and corona. 
0704.01512	Gauge Invariant Factorisation and Canonical Quantisation of  Topologically Massive Gauge Theories in Any Dimension	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Bruno Bertrand (1), Jan Govaerts (2,3) ((1) CP3, UCL, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium, (2) Department of Physics, University of Stellenbosch, Stellenbosch, Rep. South Africa, (3) International Chair in Mathematical Physics and Applications (ICMPA-UNESCO), Cotonou, Rep. Benin)	 Abstract: Abelian topologically massive gauge theories (TMGT) provide a topological mechanism to generate mass for a bosonic p-tensor field in any spacetime dimension. These theories include the 2+1 dimensional Maxwell-Chern-Simons and 3+1 dimensional Cremmer-Scherk actions as particular cases. Within the Hamiltonian formulation, the embedded topological field theory (TFT) sector related to the topological mass term is not manifest in the original phase space. However through an appropriate canonical transformation, a gauge invariant factorisation of phase space into two orthogonal sectors is feasible. The first of these sectors includes canonically conjugate gauge invariant variables with free massive excitations. The second sector, which decouples from the total Hamiltonian, is equivalent to the phase space description of the associated non dynamical pure TFT. Within canonical quantisation, a likewise factorisation of quantum states thus arises for the full spectrum of TMGT in any dimension. This new factorisation scheme also enables a definition of the usual projection from TMGT onto topological quantum field theories in a most natural and transparent way. None of these results rely on any gauge fixing procedure whatsoever. 
0704.01513	Compensation of loss in propagating surface plasmon polariton by gain in  adjacent dielectric medium	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:M. A. Noginov, V. A. Podolskiy, G. Zhu, M. Mayy, M. Bahoura, J. A.Adegoke, B. A.Ritzo, K. Reynolds	 Abstract: We report the suppression of loss of surface plasmon polariton propagating at the interface between silver film and optically pumped polymer with dye. Large magnitude of the effect enables a variety of applications of "active" nanoplasmonics. The experimental study is accompanied by the development of the analytical description of the phenomenon and the solution of the controversy regarding the direction of the wavevector of a wave with a strong evanescent component in an active medium. 
0704.01514	Towards Functional Flows for Hierarchical Models	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Daniel F. Litim	 Abstract: The recursion relations of hierarchical models are studied and contrasted with functional renormalisation group equations in corresponding approximations. The formalisms are compared quantitatively for the Ising universality class, where the spectrum of universal eigenvalues at criticality is studied. A significant correlation amongst scaling exponents is pointed out and analysed in view of an underlying optimisation. Functional flows are provided which match with high accuracy all known scaling exponents from Dyson's hierarchical model for discrete block-spin transformations. Implications of the results are discussed. 
0704.01515	High Precision CTE-Measurement of SiC-100 for Cryogenic Space-Telescopes	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K. Enya, N. Yamada, T. Onaka, T. Nakagawa, H. Kaneda, M. Hirabayashi, Y. Toulemont, D. Castel, Y. Kanai, N. Fujishiro	 Abstract: We present the results of high precision measurements of the thermal expansion of the sintered SiC, SiC-100, intended for use in cryogenic space-telescopes, in which minimization of thermal deformation of the mirror is critical and precise information of the thermal expansion is needed for the telescope design. The temperature range of the measurements extends from room temperature down to $\sim$ 10 K. Three samples, #1, #2, and #3 were manufactured from blocks of SiC produced in different lots. The thermal expansion of the samples was measured with a cryogenic dilatometer, consisting of a laser interferometer, a cryostat, and a mechanical cooler. The typical thermal expansion curve is presented using the 8th order polynomial of the temperature. For the three samples, the coefficients of thermal expansion (CTE), $\bar{\alpha}_{#1}$, $\bar{\alpha}_{#2}$, and $\bar{\alpha}_{#3}$ were derived for temperatures between 293 K and 10 K. The average and the dispersion (1 $\sigma$ rms) of these three CTEs are 0.816 and 0.002 ($\times 10^{-6}$/K), respectively. No significant difference was detected in the CTE of the three samples from the different lots. Neither inhomogeneity nor anisotropy of the CTE was observed. Based on the obtained CTE dispersion, we performed an finite-element-method (FEM) analysis of the thermal deformation of a 3.5 m diameter cryogenic mirror made of six SiC-100 segments. It was shown that the present CTE measurement has a sufficient accuracy well enough for the design of the 3.5 m cryogenic infrared telescope mission, the Space Infrared telescope for Cosmology and Astrophysics (SPICA). 
0704.01516	Compton Scattering of Fe K alpha Lines in Magnetic Cataclysmic Variables	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A.L. McNamara, Z. Kuncic, K. Wu, D.K. Galloway, J.G. Cullen	 Abstract: Compton scattering of X-rays in the bulk flow of the accretion column in magnetic cataclysmic variables (mCVs) can significantly shift photon energies. We present Monte Carlo simulations based on a nonlinear algorithm demonstrating the effects of Compton scattering on the H-like, He-like and neutral Fe K alpha lines produced in the post-shock region of the accretion column. The peak line emissivities of the photons in the post-shock flow are taken into consideration and frequency shifts due to Doppler effects are also included. We find that line profiles are most distorted by Compton scattering effects in strongly magnetized mCVs with a low white dwarf mass and high mass accretion rate and which are viewed at an oblique angle with respect to the accretion column. The resulting line profiles are most sensitive to the inclination angle. We have also explored the effects of modifying the accretion column width and using a realistic emissivity profile. We find that these do not have a significant overall effect on the resulting line profiles. A comparison of our simulated line spectra with high resolution Chandra/HETGS observations of the mCV GK Per indicates that a wing feature redward of the 6.4 keV line may result from Compton recoil near the base of the accretion column. 
0704.01517	The Limits of Special Relativity	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:B.G. Sidharth	 Abstract: The Special Theory of Relativity and the Theory of the Electron have had an interesting history together. Originally the electron was studied in a non relativistic context and this opened up the interesting possibility that lead to the conclusion that the mass of the electron could be thought of entirely in electromagnetic terms without introducing inertial considerations. However the application of Special Relativity lead to several problems, both for an extended electron and the point electron. These inconsistencies have, contrary to popular belief not been resolved satisfactorily today, even within the context of Quantum Theory. Nevertheless these and subsequent studies bring out the interesting result that Special Relativity breaks down within the Compton scale or when the Compton scale is not neglected. This again runs contrary to an uncritical notion that Special Relativity is valid for point particles. 
0704.01518	Crystalline silicates and dust processing in the protoplanetary disks of  the Taurus young cluster	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Dan M. Watson, Jarron M. Leisenring, Elise Furlan, C.J. Bohac, B. Sargent, W.J. Forrest, Nuria Calvet, Lee Hartmann, Jason T. Nordhaus, Joel D. Green, K.H. Kim, G.C. Sloan, C.H. Chen, L.D. Keller, Paola dAlessio, J. Najita, Keven I. Uchida, J.R. Houck	 Abstract: We characterize the crystalline silicate content and spatial distribution of small dust grains in a large sample of protoplanetary disks in the Taurus-Auriga young cluster, using Spitzer Space Telescope mid-infrared spectra. In turn we use the results to analyze the evolution of structure and composition of these 1-2 Myr-old disks around Solar- and later-type young stars, and test the standard models of dust processing which result in the conversion of originally amorphous dust into minerals. We find strong evidence of evolution of the dust crystalline mass fraction in parallel with that of the structure of the disks, in the sense that increasing crystalline mass fraction is strongly linked to dust settling to the disk midplane. We also confirm that the crystalline silicates are confined to small radii, r < 10 AU. However, we see no significant correlation of crystalline mass fraction with stellar mass or luminosity, stellar accretion rate, disk mass, or disk/star mass ratio, as would be expected in the standard models of dust processing based upon photo-evaporation and condensation close to the central star, accretion-heating-driven annealing at r < 1 AU, or spiral-shock heating at r < 10 AU, with or without effective radial mixing mechanisms. Either another grain-crystallizing mechanism dominates over these, or another process must be at work within the disks to erase the correlations they produce. We propose one of each sort that seem to be worth further investigation, namely X-ray heating and annealing of dust grains, and modulation of disk structure by giant-planetary formation and migration. 
0704.01519	Comprehensive simulations of superhumps	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Amanda J. Smith (1), Carole A. Haswell (1), James R. Murray (2), Michael R. Truss (3), Stephen B. Foulkes (1) ((1) The Open University, (2) Swinburne University of Technology, (3) Durham University)	 Abstract: (Abridged) We use 3D SPH calculations with higher resolution, as well as with more realistic viscosity and sound-speed prescriptions than previous work to examine the eccentric instability which underlies the superhump phenomenon in semi-detached binaries. We illustrate the importance of the two-armed spiral mode in the generation of superhumps. Differential motions in the fluid disc cause converging flows which lead to strong spiral shocks once each superhump cycle. The dissipation associated with these shocks powers the superhump. We compare 2D and 3D results, and conclude that 3D simulations are necessary to faithfully simulate the disc dynamics. We ran our simulations for unprecedented durations, so that an eccentric equilibrium is established except at high mass ratios where the growth rate of the instability is very low. Our improved simulations give a closer match to the observed relationship between superhump period excess and binary mass ratio than previous numerical work. The observed black hole X-ray transient superhumpers appear to have systematically lower disc precession rates than the cataclysmic variables. This could be due to higher disc temperatures and thicknesses. The modulation in total viscous dissipation on the superhump period is overwhelmingly from the region of the disc within the 3:1 resonance radius. As the eccentric instability develops, the viscous torques are enhanced, and the disc consequently adjusts to a new equilibrium state, as suggested in the thermal-tidal instability model. We quantify this enhancement in the viscosity, which is ~10 per cent for q=0.08. We characterise the eccentricity distributions in our accretion discs, and show that the entire body of the disc partakes in the eccentricity. 
0704.01520	Singular Energy Distributions in Granular Media	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:E. Ben-Naim, A. Zippelius	 Abstract: We study the kinetic theory of driven granular gases, taking into account both translational and rotational degrees of freedom. We obtain the high-energy tail of the stationary bivariate energy distribution, depending on the total energy E and the ratio x=sqrt{E_w/E} of rotational energy E_w to total energy. Extremely energetic particles have a unique and well-defined distribution f(x) which has several remarkable features: x is not uniformly distributed as in molecular gases; f(x) is not smooth but has multiple singularities. The latter behavior is sensitive to material properties such as the collision parameters, the moment of inertia and the collision rate. Interestingly, there are preferred ratios of rotational-to-total energy. In general, f(x) is strongly correlated with energy and the deviations from a uniform distribution grow with energy. We also solve for the energy distribution of freely cooling Maxwell Molecules and find qualitatively similar behavior. 
0704.01521	Cosmological Shock Waves in the Large Scale Structure of the Universe:  Non-gravitational Effects	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Hyesung Kang (Pusan National University, Korea), Dongsu Ryu (Chungnam National University, Korea), Renyue Cen (Princeton University, USA), J. P. Ostriker (Princeton University, USA)	 Abstract: Cosmological shock waves result from supersonic flow motions induced by hierarchical clustering of nonlinear structures in the universe. These shocks govern the nature of cosmic plasma through thermalization of gas and acceleration of nonthermal, cosmic-ray (CR) particles. We study the statistics and energetics of shocks formed in cosmological simulations of a concordance $\Lambda$CDM universe, with a special emphasis on the effects of non-gravitational processes such as radiative cooling, photoionization/heating, and galactic superwind feedbacks. Adopting an improved model for gas thermalization and CR acceleration efficiencies based on nonlinear diffusive shock acceleration calculations, we then estimate the gas thermal energy and the CR energy dissipated at shocks through the history of the universe. Since shocks can serve as sites for generation of vorticity, we also examine the vorticity that should have been generated mostly at curved shocks in cosmological simulations. We find that the dynamics and energetics of shocks are governed primarily by the gravity of matter, so other non-gravitational processes do not affect significantly the global energy dissipation and vorticity generation at cosmological shocks. Our results reinforce scenarios in which the intracluster medium and warm-hot intergalactic medium contain energetically significant populations of nonthermal particles and turbulent flow motions. 
0704.01522	Outstanding Issues in Our Understanding of L, T, and Y Dwarfs	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. Davy Kirkpatrick	 Abstract: Since the discovery of the first L dwarf 19 years ago and the discovery of the first T dwarf 7 years after that, we have amassed a large list of these objects, now numbering almost six hundred. Despite making headway in understanding the physical chemistry of their atmospheres, some important issues remain unexplained. Three of these are the subject of this paper: (1) What is the role of "second parameters" such as gravity and metallicity in shaping the emergent spectra of L and T dwarfs? Can we establish a robust classification scheme so that objects with unusual values of log(g) or [M/H], unusual dust content, or unresolved binarity are easily recognized? (2) Which physical processes drive the unusual behavior at the L/T transition? Which observations can be obtained to better confine the problem? (3) What will objects cooler than T8 look like? How will we know a Y dwarf when we first observe one? 
0704.01523	The orbit, mass, size, albedo, and density of (65489) Ceto/Phorcys: A  tidally-evolved binary Centaur	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:W.M. Grundy, J.A. Stansberry, K.S. Noll, D.C. Stephens, D.E. Trilling, S.D. Kern, J.R. Spencer, D.P. Cruikshank, H.F. Levison	 Abstract: Hubble Space Telescope observations of Uranus- and Neptune-crossing object (65489) Ceto/Phorcys (provisionally designated 2003 FX128) reveal it to be a close binary system. The mutual orbit has a period of 9.554 +/- 0.011 days and a semimajor axis of 1840 +/- 48 km. These values enable computation of a system mass of (5.41 +/- 0.42) 10^18 kg. Spitzer Space Telescope observations of thermal emission at 24 and 70 microns are combined with visible photometry to constrain the system's effective radius (109 +10/-11 km) and geometric albedo (0.084 +0.021/-0.014). We estimate the average bulk density to be 1.37 +0.66/-0.32 g cm^-3, consistent with ice plus rocky and/or carbonaceous materials. This density contrasts with lower densities recently measured with the same technique for three other comparably-sized outer Solar System binaries (617) Patroclus, (26308) 1998 SM165, and (47171) 1999 TC36, and is closer to the density of the saturnian irregular satellite Phoebe. The mutual orbit of Ceto and Phorcys is nearly circular, with an eccentricity <= 0.015. This observation is consistent with calculations suggesting that the system should tidally evolve on a timescale shorter than the age of the solar system. 
0704.01524	GLRT-Optimal Noncoherent Lattice Decoding	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Daniel J. Ryan, Iain B. Collings, I. Vaughan L. Clarkson	 Abstract: This paper presents new low-complexity lattice-decoding algorithms for noncoherent block detection of QAM and PAM signals over complex-valued fading channels. The algorithms are optimal in terms of the generalized likelihood ratio test (GLRT). The computational complexity is polynomial in the block length; making GLRT-optimal noncoherent detection feasible for implementation. We also provide even lower complexity suboptimal algorithms. Simulations show that the suboptimal algorithms have performance indistinguishable from the optimal algorithms. Finally, we consider block based transmission, and propose to use noncoherent detection as an alternative to pilot assisted transmission (PAT). The new technique is shown to outperform PAT. 
0704.01525	Distributions of H2O and CO2 ices on Ariel, Umbriel, Titania, and Oberon  from IRTF/SpeX observations	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:W.M. Grundy, L.A. Young, J.R. Spencer, R.E. Johnson, E.F. Young, M.W. Buie	 Abstract: We present 0.8 to 2.4 micron spectral observations of uranian satellites, obtained at IRTF/SpeX on 17 nights during 2001-2005. The spectra reveal for the first time the presence of CO2 ice on the surfaces of Umbriel and Titania, by means of 3 narrow absorption bands near 2 microns. Several additional, weaker CO2 ice absorptions have also been detected. No CO2 absorption is seen in Oberon spectra, and the strengths of the CO2 ice bands decline with planetocentric distance from Ariel through Titania. We use the CO2 absorptions to map the longitudinal distribution of CO2 ice on Ariel, Umbriel, and Titania, showing that it is most abundant on their trailing hemispheres. We also examine H2O ice absorptions in the spectra, finding deeper H2O bands on the leading hemispheres of Ariel, Umbriel, and Titania, but the opposite pattern on Oberon. Potential mechanisms to produce the observed longitudinal and planetocentric distributions of the two ices are considered. 
0704.01526	Proof of the Labastida-Marino-Ooguri-Vafa Conjecture	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Kefeng Liu, Pan Peng	 Abstract: Based on large N Chern-Simons/topological string duality, in a series of papers, J.M.F. Labastida, M. Marino, H. Ooguri and C. Vafa conjectured certain remarkable new algebraic structure of link invariants and the existence of infinite series of new integer invariants. In this paper, we provide a proof of this conjecture. Moreover, we also show these new integer invariants vanish at large genera. 
0704.01527	Study of exotic hadrons in s-wave chiral dynamics	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Tetsuo Hyodo (1), Daisuke Jido (1), Atsushi Hosaka (2) ((1) YITP, Kyoto Univ., (2) RCNP, Osaka Univ.)	 Abstract: We study the exotic hadrons in s-wave scattering of the Nambu-Goldstone boson with a target hadron based on chiral dynamics. Utilizing the low energy theorem of chiral symmetry, we show that the s-wave interaction is not strong enough to generate bound states in exotic channels in flavor SU(3) symmetric limit, although the interaction is responsible for generating some nonexotic hadron resonances dynamically. We discuss the renormalization condition adopted in this analysis. 
0704.01528	Extremely strong-coupling superconductivity and anomalous lattice  properties in the beta-pyrochlore oxide KOs2O6	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Z. Hiroi, S. Yonezawa, Y. Nagao, J. Yamaura	 Abstract: Superconducting and normal-state properties of the beta-pyrochlore oxide KOs2O6 are studied by means of thermodynamic and transport measurements. It is shown that the superconductivity is of conventional s-wave type and lies in the extremely strong-coupling regime. Specific heat and resistivity measurements reveal that there are characteristic low-energy phonons that give rise to unusual scattering of carriers due to strong electron-phonon interactions. The entity of the low-energy phonons is ascribed to the heavy rattling of the K ion confined in an oversized cage made of OsO6 octahedra. It is suggested that this electron-rattler coupling mediates the Cooper pairing, resulting in the extremely strong-coupling superconductivity. 
0704.01529	Analysis of low energy pion spectra	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Suk Choi, Kang Seog Lee	 Abstract: The transverse mass spectra and the rapidity distributions of $\pi^+$ and $\pi^-$ in Au-Au collisions at 2, 4, 6, and 8 GeV$\cdot$A by E895 collaboration are fitted using an elliptically expanding fireball model with the contribution from the resonance decays and the final state Coulomb interaction. The ratio of the total number of produced $\pi^-$ and $\pi^+$ is used to fit the data. The resulting freeze-out temperature is rather low($T_f < 60$ MeV) with large transverse flow and thus resonance contribution is very small. The difference in the shape of $m_t$ spectra of the oppositely charged pions are found to be due to the Coulomb interaction of the pions. 
0704.01530	A study of the $p d \to p d η$ reaction	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:N. J. Upadhyay, K. P. Khemchandani, B. K. Jain, N. G. Kelkar	 Abstract: A study of the $p d \to p d \eta$ reaction in the energy range where the recent data from Uppsala are available, is done in the two-step model of $\eta$ production including the final state interaction. The $\eta -d$ final state interaction is incorporated through the solution of the Lippmann Schwinger equation using an elastic scattering matrix element, $T_{\eta d \to \eta d}$, which is required to be half off-shell. It is written in a factorized form, with an off-shell form factor multiplying an on-shell part given by an effective range expansion up to the fourth power in momentum. The parameters of this expansion have been taken from an existing recent relativistic Faddeev equation solution for the $\eta NN$ system corresponding to different $\eta-N$ scattering amplitudes. Calculations have also been done using few body equations within a finite rank approximation (FRA) to generate $T_{\eta d \to \eta d}$. The $p-d$ final state interaction is included in the spirit of the Watson-Migdal prescription by multiplying the matrix element by the inverse of the Jost function. The $\eta-d$ interaction is found to be dominant in the region of small invariant $\eta -d$ mass, $M_{\eta d}$. The $p-d$ interaction enhances the cross section in the whole region of $M_{\eta d}$, but is larger for large $M_{\eta d}$. We find nearly isotropic angular distributions of the proton and the deuteron in the final state. All the above observations are in agreement with data. The production mechanism for the entire range of the existing data on the $p d \to p d \eta$ reaction seems to be dominated by the two-step model of $\eta$ production. 
0704.01531	On the exact formula for neutrino oscillation probability by Kimura,  Takamura and Yokomakura	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Osamu Yasuda	 Abstract: The exact formula for the neutrino oscillation probability in matter with constant density, which was discovered by Kimura, Takamura and Yokomakura, has been applied mostly to the standard case with three flavor neutrino so far. In this paper applications of their formula to more general cases are discussed. It is shown that this formalism can be generalized to various cases where the matter potential have off-diagonal components, and the two non-trivial examples are given: the case with magnetic moments and a magnetic field and the case with non-standard interactions. It is pointed out that their formalism can be applied also to the case in the long baseline limit with matter whose density varies adiabatically as in the case of solar neutrino. 
0704.01532	Absolute measurement of the nitrogen fluorescence yield in air between  300 and 430 nm	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G. Lefeuvre (APC), P. Gorodetzky (APC), J. Dolbeau (APC), T. Patzak (APC), P. Salin (APC)	 Abstract: The nitrogen fluorescence induced in air is used to detect ultra-high energy cosmic rays and to measure their energy. The precise knowledge of the absolute fluorescence yield is the key quantity to improve the accuracy on the cosmic ray energy. The total yield has been measured in dry air using a 90Sr source and a [300-430 nm] filter. The fluorescence yield in air is 4.23 $\pm$ 0.20 photons per meter when normalized to 760 mmHg, 15 degrees C and with an electron energy of 0.85 MeV. This result is consistent with previous experiments made at various energies, but with an accuracy improved by a factor of about 3. For the first time, the absolute continuous spectrum of nitrogen excited by 90Sr electrons has also been measured with a spectrometer. Details of this experiment are given in one of the author's PhD thesis [32]. 
0704.01533	Concrete Classification and Centralizers of Certain $\mathbb{Z}^2  \rtimes {\rm SL}(2,\mathbb{Z})$-actions	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Hiroki Sako	 Abstract: We introduce a new class of actions of the group $\G$ on finite von Neumann algebras and call them twisted Bernoulli shift actions. We classify these actions up to conjugacy and give an explicit description of their centralizers. We also distinguish many of those actions on the AFD $\mathrm{II}_1$ factor in view of outer conjugacy. 
0704.01534	The Phase-resolved High Energy Spectrum of the Crab Pulsar	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J.J. Jia, Anisia P.S. Tang, J. Takata, H.K. Chang, K.S.Cheng	 Abstract: We present a modified outer gap model to study the phase-resolved spectra of the Crab pulsar. A theoretical double peak profile of the light curve containing the whole phase is shown to be consistent with the observed light curve of the Crab pulsar by shifting the inner boundary of the outer gap inwardly to $\sim 10$ stellar radii above the neutron star surface. In this model, the radial distances of the photons corresponding to different phases can be determined in the numerical calculation. Also the local electrodynamics, such as the accelerating electric field, the curvature radius of the magnetic field line and the soft photon energy, are sensitive to the radial distances to the neutron star. Using a synchrotron self-Compton mechanism, the phase-resolved spectra with the energy range from 100 eV to 3 GeV of the Crab pulsar can also be explained. 
0704.01535	Massive N=1 supermultiplets with arbitrary superspins	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Yu. M. Zinoviev	 Abstract: In this paper we give explicit construction of massive N=1 supermultiplets in flat d=4 Minkowski space-time. We work in a component on-shell formalism based on gauge invariant description of massive integer and half-integer spin particles where massive supermultiplets are constructed out of appropriate set of massless ones. 
0704.01536	Critical Current of Type-II Superconductors in a Broken Bose Glass State	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:J. P. Rodriguez	 Abstract: The tilt modulus of a defective Abrikosov vortex lattice pinned by material line defects is computed using the boson analogy. It tends to infinity at long wavelength, which yields a Bose glass state that is robust to the addition of weak point-pinning centers, and which implies a restoring force per vortex line for rigid translations about mechanical equilibrium that is independent of magnetic field. It also indicates that the Bose glass state breaks into pieces along the direction of the correlated pinning centers if the latter have finite length. The critical current is predicted to crossover from two dimensional to three dimensional behavior as a function of sample thickness along the correlated pinning centers in such case. That crossover notably can occur at a film thickness that is much larger than that expected from point pins of comparable strength. The above is compared to the dependence on thickness shown by the critical current in certain films of high-temperature superconductors currently being developed for wire technology. 
0704.01537	Estimates for singular integrals and extrapolation	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Shuichi Sato	 Abstract: We prove a sharp Lp estimate for a singular Radon transform according to a size condition of its kernel, which is useful for extrapolation. 
0704.01538	Rounding of first-order phase transitions and optimal cooperation in  scale-free networks	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:M. Karsai, J-Ch. Anglès d'Auriac, F. Iglói	 Abstract: We consider the ferromagnetic large-$q$ state Potts model in complex evolving networks, which is equivalent to an optimal cooperation problem, in which the agents try to optimize the total sum of pair cooperation benefits and the supports of independent projects. The agents are found to be typically of two kinds: a fraction of $m$ (being the magnetization of the Potts model) belongs to a large cooperating cluster, whereas the others are isolated one man's projects. It is shown rigorously that the homogeneous model has a strongly first-order phase transition, which turns to second-order for random interactions (benefits), the properties of which are studied numerically on the Barab\'asi-Albert network. The distribution of finite-size transition points is characterized by a shift exponent, $1/\tilde{\nu}'=.26(1)$, and by a different width exponent, $1/\nu'=.18(1)$, whereas the magnetization at the transition point scales with the size of the network, $N$, as: $m\sim N^{-x}$, with $x=.66(1)$. 
0704.01539	A New Monte Carlo Method and Its Implications for Generalized Cluster  Algorithms	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:C. H. Mak, Arun K. Sharma	 Abstract: We describe a novel switching algorithm based on a ``reverse'' Monte Carlo method, in which the potential is stochastically modified before the system configuration is moved. This new algorithm facilitates a generalized formulation of cluster-type Monte Carlo methods, and the generalization makes it possible to derive cluster algorithms for systems with both discrete and continuous degrees of freedom. The roughening transition in the sine-Gordon model has been studied with this method, and high-accuracy simulations for system sizes up to $1024^2$ were carried out to examine the logarithmic divergence of the surface roughness above the transition temperature, revealing clear evidence for universal scaling of the Kosterlitz-Thouless type. 
0704.01540	The Orbifolds of Permutation-Type as Physical String Systems at  Multiples of $c=26$ III. The Spectra of $\hat{c}=52$ Strings	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:M.B. Halpern	 Abstract: In the second paper of this series, I obtained the twisted BRST systems and extended physical-state conditions of all twisted open and closed $\hat{c} = 52$ strings. In this paper, I supplement the extended physical-state conditions with the explicit form of the extended (twisted) Virasoro generators of all $\hat{c} = 52$ strings, which allows us to discuss the physical spectra of these systems. Surprisingly, all the $\hat{c}=52$ spectra admit an equivalent description in terms of generically-unconventional Virasoro generators at $c=26$. This description strongly supports our prior conjecture that the $\hat{c}=52$ strings are free of negative-norm states, and moreover shows that the spectra of some of the simpler cases are equivalent to those of ordinary untwisted open and closed $c=26$ strings. 
0704.01541	Riemannian and Lorentzian structures on the non symmetric space  SO(2m)/Sp(m)	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Elisabeth Remm, Michel Goze	 Abstract: In this work, we are interested in a non symmetric homogeneous space, namely $SO(2m)/Sp(m)$. We show that this space admits a structure of $Z_2^2$-symmetric space. We describe all the non degenerated metrics and classify the Riemannian and Lorentzian ones. 
0704.01542	Quasiparticles in Neon using the Faddeev Random Phase Approximation	Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)	Authors:C. Barbieri (GSI), D. Van Neck (Ghent), W. H. Dickhoff (St.Louis)	 Abstract: The spectral function of the closed-shell Neon atom is computed by expanding the electron self-energy through a set of Faddeev equations. This method describes the coupling of single-particle degrees of freedom with correlated two-electron, two-hole, and electron-hole pairs. The excitation spectra are obtained using the Random Phase Approximation, rather than the Tamm-Dancoff framework employed in the third-order algebraic diagrammatic contruction [ADC(3)] method. The difference between these two approaches is studied, as well as the interplay between ladder and ring diagrams in the self-energy. Satisfactory results are obtained for the ionization energies as well as the energy of the ground state with the Faddeev-RPA scheme that is also appropriate for the high-density electron gas. 
0704.01543	Discrete Nonholonomic Lagrangian Systems on Lie Groupoids	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:D. Iglesias, J.C. Marrero, D. Martin de Diego, E. Martinez	 Abstract: This paper studies the construction of geometric integrators for nonholonomic systems. We derive the nonholonomic discrete Euler-Lagrange equations in a setting which permits to deduce geometric integrators for continuous nonholonomic systems (reduced or not). The formalism is given in terms of Lie groupoids, specifying a discrete Lagrangian and a constraint submanifold on it. Additionally, it is necessary to fix a vector subbundle of the Lie algebroid associated to the Lie groupoid. We also discuss the existence of nonholonomic evolution operators in terms of the discrete nonholonomic Legendre transformations and in terms of adequate decompositions of the prolongation of the Lie groupoid. The characterization of the reversibility of the evolution operator and the discrete nonholonomic momentum equation are also considered. Finally, we illustrate with several classical examples the wide range of application of the theory (the discrete nonholonomic constrained particle, the Suslov system, the Chaplygin sleigh, the Veselova system, the rolling ball on a rotating table and the two wheeled planar mobile robot). 
0704.01544	Pseudogap and charge density waves in two dimensions	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:S. V. Borisenko, A. A. Kordyuk, A. N. Yaresko, V. B. Zabolotnyy, D. S. Inosov, R. Schuster, B. Buechner, R. Weber, R. Follath, L. Patthey, H. Berger	 Abstract: An interaction between electrons and lattice vibrations (phonons) results in two fundamental quantum phenomena in solids: in three dimensions it can turn a metal into a superconductor whereas in one dimension it can turn a metal into an insulator. In two dimensions (2D) both superconductivity and charge-density waves (CDW) are believed to be anomalous. In superconducting cuprates, critical transition temperatures are unusually high and the energy gap may stay unclosed even above these temperatures (pseudogap). In CDW-bearing dichalcogenides the resistivity below the transition can decrease with temperature even faster than in the normal phase and a basic prerequisite for the CDW, the favourable nesting conditions (when some sections of the Fermi surface appear shifted by the same vector), seems to be absent. Notwithstanding the existence of alternatives to conventional theories, both phenomena in 2D still remain the most fascinating puzzles in condensed matter physics. Using the latest developments in high-resolution angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) here we show that the normal-state pseudogap also exists in one of the most studied 2D examples, dichalcogenide 2H-TaSe2, and the formation of CDW is driven by a conventional nesting instability, which is masked by the pseudogap. Our findings reconcile and explain a number of unusual, as previously believed, experimental responses as well as disprove many alternative theoretical approaches. The magnitude, character and anisotropy of the 2D-CDW pseudogap are intriguingly similar to those seen in superconducting cuprates. 
0704.01545	Supersymmetric Field Theory Based on Generalized Uncertainty Principle	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Yuuichirou Shibusa (RIKEN)	 Abstract: We construct a quantum theory of free fermion field based on the generalized uncertainty principle using supersymmetry as a guiding principle. A supersymmetric field theory with a real scalar field and a Majorana fermion field is given explicitly and we also find that the supersymmetry algebra is deformed from an usual one. 
0704.01546	Optimal flexibility for conformational transitions in macromolecules	Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)	Authors:Richard A. Neher, Wolfram Mobius, Erwin Frey, Ulrich Gerland	 Abstract: Conformational transitions in macromolecular complexes often involve the reorientation of lever-like structures. Using a simple theoretical model, we show that the rate of such transitions is drastically enhanced if the lever is bendable, e.g. at a localized "hinge''. Surprisingly, the transition is fastest with an intermediate flexibility of the hinge. In this intermediate regime, the transition rate is also least sensitive to the amount of "cargo'' attached to the lever arm, which could be exploited by molecular motors. To explain this effect, we generalize the Kramers-Langer theory for multi-dimensional barrier crossing to configuration dependent mobility matrices. 
0704.01547	AFM Imaging of SWI/SNF action: mapping the nucleosome remodeling and  sliding	Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)	Authors:Fabien Montel, Emeline Fontaine, Philippe St-Jean, Martin Castelnovo, Cendrine Moskalenko-Faivre	 Abstract: We propose a combined experimental (Atomic Force Microscopy) and theoretical study of the structural and dynamical properties of nucleosomes. In contrast to biochemical approaches, this method allows to determine simultaneously the DNA complexed length distribution and nucleosome position in various contexts. First, we show that differences in the nucleo-proteic structure observed between conventional H2A and H2A.Bbd variant nucleosomes induce quantitative changes in the in the length distribution of DNA complexed with histones. Then, the sliding action of remodeling complex SWI/SNF is characterized through the evolution of the nucleosome position and wrapped DNA length mapping. Using a linear energetic model for the distribution of DNA complexed length, we extract the net wrapping energy of DNA onto the histone octamer, and compare it to previous studies. 
0704.01548	When the orbit algebra of group is an integral domain? Proof of a  conjecture of P.J. Cameron	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Maurice Pouzet	 Abstract: P.J.Cameron introduced the orbit algebra of a permutation group and conjectured that this algebra is an integral domain if and only if the group has no finite orbit. We prove that this conjecture holds and in fact that the age algebra of a relational structure $R$ is an integral domain if and only if $R$ is age-inexhaustible. We deduce these results from a combinatorial lemma asserting that if a product of two non-zero elements of a set algebra is zero then there is a finite common tranversal of their supports. The proof is built on Ramsey theorem and the integrity of a shuffle algebra. 
0704.01549	Saturated actions by finite dimensional Hopf *-algebras on C*-algebras	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:J. A. Jeong, G. H. Park	 Abstract: If a finite group action $\alpha$ on a unital $C^*$-algebra $M$ is saturated, the canonical conditional expectation $E:M\to M^\alpha$ onto the fixed point algebra is known to be of index finite type with $Index(E)=|G|$ in the sense of Watatani. More generally if a finite dimensional Hopf $*$-algebra $A$ acts on $M$ and the action is saturated, the same is true with $Index (E)=\dim(A)$. In this paper we prove that the converse is true. Especially in case $M$ is a commutative $C^*$-algebra $C(X)$ and $\alpha$ is a finite group action, we give an equivalent condition in order that the expectation $E:C(X)\to C(X)^\alpha$ is of index finite type, from which we obtain that $\alpha$ is saturated if and only if $G$ acts freely on $X$. Actions by compact groups are also considered to show that the gauge action $\gamma$ on a graph $C^*$-algebra $C^*(E)$ associated with a locally finite directed graph $E$ is saturated. 
0704.01550	The electronic structures, the equilibrium geometries and finite  temperature properties of Na_n (n=39-55)	Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)	Authors:Shahab Zorriasatein, Mal-Soon Lee, D. G. Kanhere	 Abstract: Density-functional theory has been applied to investigate systematics of sodium clusters Na_n in the size range of n= 39-55. A clear evolutionary trend in the growth of their ground-state geometries emerges. The clusters at the beginning of the series (n=39-43) are symmetric and have partial icosahedral (two-shell) structure. The growth then goes through a series of disordered clusters (n=44-52) where the icosahedral core is lost. However, for n>52 a three shell icosahedral structure emerges. This change in the nature of the geometry is abrupt. In addition, density-functional molecular dynamics has been used to calculate the specific heat curves for the representative sizes n= 43, 45, 48 and 52. These results along with already available thermodynamic calculations for n= 40, 50, and 55 enable us to carry out a detailed comparison of the heat capacity curves with their respective geometries for the entire series. Our results clearly bring out strong correlation between the evolution of the geometries and the nature of the shape of the heat capacities. The results also firmly establish the size-sensitive nature of the heat capacities in sodium clusters. 
0704.01551	Quantum Zeno Effect in the Decoherent Histories	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Petros Wallden	 Abstract: The quantum Zeno effect arises due to frequent observation. That implies the existence of some experimenter and its interaction with the system. In this contribution, we examine what happens for a closed system if one considers a quantum Zeno type of question, namely: "what is the probability of a system, remaining always in a particular subspace". This has implications to the arrival time problem that is also discussed. We employ the decoherent histories approach to quantum theory, as this is the better developed formulation of closed system quantum mechanics, and in particular, dealing with questions that involve time in a non-trivial way. We get a very restrictive decoherence condition, that implies that even if we do introduce an environment, there will be very few cases that we can assign probabilities to these histories, but in those cases, the quantum Zeno effect is still present. 
0704.01552	Green function theory versus Quantum Monte Carlo calculations for thin  magnetic films	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:S. Henning (1), F. Koermann (1), J. Kienert (1), S. Schwieger (2), W. Nolting (1) ((1) Festkoerpertheorie, HU Berlin, (2) Theoretische Physik I, TU Ilmenau)	 Abstract: In this work we compare numerically exact Quantum Monte Carlo (QMC) calculations and Green function theory (GFT) calculations of thin ferromagnetic films including second order anisotropies. Thereby we concentrate on easy plane systems, i.e. systems for which the anisotropy favors a magnetization parallel to the film plane. We discuss these systems in perpendicular external field, i.e. B parallel to the film normal. GFT results are in good agreement with QMC for high enough fields and temperatures. Below a critical field or a critical temperature no collinear stable magnetization exists in GFT. On the other hand QMC gives finite magnetization even below those critical values. This indicates that there occurs a transition from non-collinear to collinear configurations with increasing field or temperature. For slightly tilted external fields a rotation of magnetization from out-of-plane to in-plane orientation is found with decreasing temperature. 
0704.01553	Matrix Ordered Operator Algebras	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Ekaterina Juschenko, Stanislav Popovych	 Abstract: We study the question when for a given *-algebra $\mathcal{A}$ a sequence of cones $C_n\in M_n(\mathcal{A})$ can be realized as cones of positive operators in a faithful *-representation of $\mathcal{A}$ on a Hilbert space. A characterization of operator algebras which are completely boundedly isomorphic to $C\sp*$-algebras is presented. 
0704.01554	Properly infinite C(X)-algebras and K_1-injectivity	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Etienne Blanchard, Randi Rohde, Mikael Rordam	 Abstract: We investigate if a unital C(X)-algebra is properly infinite when all its fibres are properly infinite. We show that this question can be rephrased in several different ways, including the question if every unital properly infinite C*-algebra is K_1-injective. We provide partial answers to these questions, and we show that the general question on proper infiniteness of C(X)-algebras can be reduced to establishing proper infiniteness of a specific C([0,1])-algebra with properly infinite fibres. 
0704.01555	An information-based traffic control in a public conveyance system:  reduced clustering and enhanced efficiency	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:A. Tomoeda, K. Nishinari, D. Chowdhury, A. Schadschneider	 Abstract: A new public conveyance model applicable to buses and trains is proposed in this paper by using stochastic cellular automaton. We have found the optimal density of vehicles, at which the average velocity becomes maximum, significantly depends on the number of stops and passengers behavior of getting on a vehicle at stops. The efficiency of the hail-and-ride system is also discussed by comparing the different behavior of passengers. Moreover, we have found that a big cluster of vehicles is divided into small clusters, by incorporating information of the number of vehicles between successive stops. 
0704.01556	A separable deformation of the quaternion group algebra	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Nurit Barnea, Yuval Ginosar	 Abstract: The Donald-Flanigan conjecture asserts that for any finite group and for any field, the corresponding group algebra can be deformed to a separable algebra. The minimal unsolved instance, namely the quaternion group over a field of characteristic 2 was considered as a counterexample. We present here a separable deformation of the quaternion group algebra. In a sense, the conjecture for any finite group is open again. 
0704.01557	On the residue fields of Henselian valued stable fields, II	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:I.D. Chipchakov	 Abstract: Let $E$ be a primarily quasilocal field, $M/E$ a finite Galois extension and $D$ a central division $E$-algebra of index divisible by $[M\colon E]$. In addition to the main result of Part I, this part of the paper shows that if the Galois group $G(M/E)$ is not nilpotent, then $M$ does not necessarily embed in $D$ as an $E$-subalgebra. When $E$ is quasilocal, we find the structure of the character group of its absolute Galois group; this enables us to prove that if $E$ is strictly quasilocal and almost perfect, then the divisible part of the multiplicative group $E ^{\ast}$ equals the intersection of the norm groups of finite Galois extensions of $E$. 
0704.01558	Chromospheric Cloud-Model Inversion Techniques	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Kostas Tziotziou	 Abstract: Spectral inversion techniques based on the cloud model are extremely useful for the study of properties and dynamics of various chromospheric cloud-like structures. Several inversion techniques are reviewed based on simple (constant source function) and more elaborated cloud models, as well as on grids of synthetic line profiles produced for a wide range of physical parameters by different NLTE codes. Several examples are shown of how such techniques can be used in different chromospheric lines, for the study of structures of the quiet chromosphere, such as mottles/spicules, as well as for active region structures such as fibrils, arch filament systems (AFS), filaments and flares. 
0704.01559	Dust covering factor, silicate emission and star formation in luminous  QSOs	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. Maiolino, O. Shemmer, M. Imanishi, H. Netzer, E. Oliva, D. Lutz, E. Sturm	 Abstract: We present Spitzer IRS low resolution, mid-IR spectra of a sample of 25 high luminosity QSOs at 2<z<3.5. When combined with archival IRS observations of local, low luminosity type-I AGNs, the sample spans five orders of magnitude in luminosity. We find that the continuum dust thermal emission at lambda(rest)=6.7um is correlated with the optical luminosity, following the non-linear relation L(6.7um) propto L(5100A)^0.82. We also find an anti correlation between the ratio L(6.7um)/L(5100A) and the [OIII]5007A line luminosity. These effects are interpreted as a decreasing covering factor of the circumnuclear dust as a function of luminosity. Such a result is in agreement with the decreasing fraction of absorbed AGNs as a function of luminosity recently found in various surveys. We clearly detect the silicate emission feature in the average spectrum, but also in four individual objects. These are the Silicate emission in the most luminous objects obtained so far. When combined with the silicate emission observed in local, low luminosity type-I AGNs, we find that the silicate emission strength is correlated with luminosity. The silicate strength of all type-I AGNs also follows a positive correlation with the black hole mass and with the accretion rate. The Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon (PAH) emission features, expected from starburst activity, are not detected in the average spectrum of luminous, high-z QSOs. The upper limit inferred from the average spectrum points to a ratio between PAH luminosity and QSO optical luminosity significantly lower than observed in lower luminosity AGNs, implying that the correlation between star formation rate and AGN power saturates at high luminosities. 
0704.01560	Generating entanglement of photon-number states with coherent light via  cross-Kerr nonlinearity	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Zhi-Ming Zhang, Jian Yang, Yafei Yu	 Abstract: We propose a scheme for generating entangled states of light fields. This scheme only requires the cross-Kerr nonlinear interaction between coherent light-beams, followed by a homodyne detection. Therefore, this scheme is within the reach of current technology. We study in detail the generation of the entangled states between two modes, and that among three modes. In addition to the Bell states between two modes and the W states among three modes, we find plentiful new kinds of entangled states. Finally, the scheme can be extend to generate the entangled states among more than three modes. 
0704.01561	A parachute for the degree of a polynomial in algebraically independent  ones	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:Stéphane Vénéreau	 Abstract: We give a simpler proof as well as a generalization of the main result of an article of Shestakov and Umirbaev. This latter article being the first of two that solve a long-standing conjecture about the non-tameness, or "wildness", of Nagata's automorphism. As corollaries we get interesting informations about the leading terms of polynomials forming an automorphism in any dimension and reprove the tameness of automorphisms in dimension two. 
0704.01562	Galaxy evolution in the infra-red: comparison of a hierarchical galaxy  formation model with SPITZER data	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C.G. Lacey (1), C.M. Baugh (1), C.S. Frenk (1), L. Silva (2), G.L. Granato (3), A. Bressan (3) ((1) ICC, Durham, (2) INAF, Trieste, (3) INAF, Padova)	 Abstract: We present predictions for the evolution of the galaxy luminosity function, number counts and redshift distributions in the IR based on the Lambda-CDM cosmological model. We use the combined GALFORM semi-analytical galaxy formation model and GRASIL spectrophotometric code to compute galaxy SEDs including the reprocessing of radiation by dust. The model, which is the same as that in Baugh et al (2005), assumes two different IMFs: a normal solar neighbourhood IMF for quiescent star formation in disks, and a very top-heavy IMF in starbursts triggered by galaxy mergers. We have shown previously that the top-heavy IMF seems to be necessary to explain the number counts of faint sub-mm galaxies. We compare the model with observational data from the SPITZER Space Telescope, with the model parameters fixed at values chosen before SPITZER data became available. We find that the model matches the observed evolution in the IR remarkably well over the whole range of wavelengths probed by SPITZER. In particular, the SPITZER data show that there is strong evolution in the mid-IR galaxy luminosity function over the redshift range z ~ 0-2, and this is reproduced by our model without requiring any adjustment of parameters. On the other hand, a model with a normal IMF in starbursts predicts far too little evolution in the mid-IR luminosity function, and is therefore excluded. 
0704.01563	Use of Triangular Elements for Nearly Exact BEM Solutions	Numerical Analysis (math.NA)	Authors:Supratik Mukherjee, Nayana Majumdar	 Abstract: A library of C functions yielding exact solutions of potential and flux influences due to uniform surface distribution of singularities on flat triangular and rectangular elements has been developed. This library, ISLES, has been used to develop the neBEM solver that is both precise and fast in solving a wide range of problems of scientific and technological interest. Here we present the exact expressions proposed for computing the influence of uniform singularity distributions on triangular elements and illustrate their accuracy. We also present a study concerning the time taken to evaluate these long and complicated expressions \textit{vis a vis} that spent in carrying out simple quadratures. Finally, we solve a classic benchmark problem in electrostatics, namely, estimation of the capacitance of a unit square plate raised to unit volt. For this problem, we present the estimated values of capacitance and compare them successfully with some of the most accurate results available in the literature. In addition, we present the variation of the charge density close to the corner of the plate for various degrees of discretization. The variations are found to be smooth and converging. This is in clear contrast to the criticism commonly leveled against usual BEM solvers. 
0704.01564	Entropy of eigenfunctions	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Nalini Anantharaman (CMLS-EcolePolytechnique), Herbert Koch (BONN-MATHS), Stéphane Nonnenmacher (SPhT)	 Abstract: We study the high--energy limit for eigenfunctions of the laplacian, on a compact negatively curved manifold. We review the recent result of Anantharaman-Nonnenmacher giving a lower bound on the Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy of semiclassical measures, and improve this lower bound in the case of variable negative curvature. 
0704.01565	Vector meson production from a polarized nucleon	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:M. Diehl	 Abstract: We provide a framework to analyze the electroproduction process ep -> ep rho with a polarized target, writing the angular distribution of the rho decay products in terms of spin density matrix elements that parameterize the hadronic subprocess gamma* p -> rho p. Using the helicity basis for both photon and meson, we find a representation in which the expressions for a polarized and unpolarized target are related by simple substitution rules. 
0704.01566	The effect of the solar corona on the attenuation of small-amplitude  prominence oscillations. I. Longitudinal magnetic field	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. Soler, R. Oliver, J. L. Ballester	 Abstract: Context. One of the typical features shown by observations of solar prominence oscillations is that they are damped in time and that the values of the damping times are usually between one and three times the corresponding oscillatory period. However, the mechanism responsible for the attenuation is still not well-known. Aims. Thermal conduction, optically thin or thick radiation and heating are taken into account in the energy equation, and their role on the attenuation of prominence oscillations is evaluated. Methods. The dispersion relation for linear non-adiabatic magnetoacoustic waves is derived considering an equilibrium made of a prominence plasma slab embedded in an unbounded corona. The magnetic field is orientated along the direction parallel to the slab axis and has the same strength in all regions. By solving the dispersion relation for a fixed wavenumber, a complex oscillatory frequency is obtained, and the period and the damping time are computed. Results. The effect of conduction and radiation losses is different for each magnetoacoustic mode and depends on the wavenumber. In the observed range of wavelengths the internal slow mode is attenuated by radiation from the prominence plasma, the fast mode by the combination of prominence radiation and coronal conduction and the external slow mode by coronal conduction. The consideration of the external corona is of paramount importance in the case of the fast and external slow modes, whereas it does not affect the internal slow modes at all. Conclusions. Non-adiabatic effects are efficient damping mechanisms for magnetoacoustic modes, and the values of the obtained damping times are compatible with those observed. 
0704.01567	Energy and Momentum Distributions of Kantowski and Sachs Space-time	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Ragab M. Gad, A. Fouad	 Abstract: We use the Einstein, Bergmann-Thomson, Landau-Lifshitz and Papapetrou energy-momentum complexes to calculate the energy and momentum distributions of Kantowski and Sachs space-time. We show that the Einstein and Bergmann-Thomson definitions furnish a consistent result for the energy distribution, but the definition of Landau-Lifshitz do not agree with them. We show that a signature switch should affect about everything including energy distribution in the case of Einstein and Papapetrou prescriptions but not in Bergmann-Thomson and Landau-Lifshitz prescriptions. 
0704.01568	Green functions and nonlinear systems: Short time expansion	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Marco Frasca	 Abstract: We show that Green function methods can be straightforwardly applied to nonlinear equations appearing as the leading order of a short time expansion. Higher order corrections can be then computed giving a satisfactory agreement with numerical results. The relevance of these results relies on the possibility of fully exploiting a gradient expansion in both classical and quantum field theory granting the existence of a strong coupling expansion. Having a Green function in this regime in quantum field theory amounts to obtain the corresponding spectrum of the theory. 
0704.01569	One-way permutations, computational asymmetry and distortion	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:Jean-Camille Birget	 Abstract: Computational asymmetry, i.e., the discrepancy between the complexity of transformations and the complexity of their inverses, is at the core of one-way transformations. We introduce a computational asymmetry function that measures the amount of one-wayness of permutations. We also introduce the word-length asymmetry function for groups, which is an algebraic analogue of computational asymmetry. We relate boolean circuits to words in a Thompson monoid, over a fixed generating set, in such a way that circuit size is equal to word-length. Moreover, boolean circuits have a representation in terms of elements of a Thompson group, in such a way that circuit size is polynomially equivalent to word-length. We show that circuits built with gates that are not constrained to have fixed-length inputs and outputs, are at most quadratically more compact than circuits built from traditional gates (with fixed-length inputs and outputs). Finally, we show that the computational asymmetry function is closely related to certain distortion functions: The computational asymmetry function is polynomially equivalent to the distortion of the path length in Schreier graphs of certain Thompson groups, compared to the path length in Cayley graphs of certain Thompson monoids. We also show that the results of Razborov and others on monotone circuit complexity lead to exponential lower bounds on certain distortions. 
0704.01570	A method for the direct determination of the surface gravities of  transiting extrasolar planets	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:John Southworth (1), Peter J. Wheatley (1), Giles Sams (1),  ((1) University of Warwick, UK)	 Abstract: We show that the surface gravity of a transiting extrasolar planet can be calculated from only the spectroscopic orbit of its parent star and the analysis of its transit light curve. This does not require additional constraints, such as are often inferred from theoretical stellar models or model atmospheres. The planet's surface gravity can therefore be measured precisely and from only directly observable quantities. We outline the method and apply it to the case of the first known transiting extrasolar planet, HD 209458b. We find a surface gravity of g_p = 9.28 +/- 0.15 m/s, which is an order of magnitude more precise than the best available measurements of its mass, radius and density. This confirms that the planet has a much lower surface gravity that that predicted by published theoretical models of gas giant planets. We apply our method to all fourteen known transiting extrasolar planets and find a significant correlation between surface gravity and orbital period, which is related to the known correlation between mass and period. This correlation may be the underlying effect as surface gravity is a fundamental parameter in the evaporation of planetary atmospheres. 
0704.01571	On restrictions of balanced 2-interval graphs	Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)	Authors:Philippe Gambette (LIAFA), Stéphane Vialette (LRI)	 Abstract: The class of 2-interval graphs has been introduced for modelling scheduling and allocation problems, and more recently for specific bioinformatic problems. Some of those applications imply restrictions on the 2-interval graphs, and justify the introduction of a hierarchy of subclasses of 2-interval graphs that generalize line graphs: balanced 2-interval graphs, unit 2-interval graphs, and (x,x)-interval graphs. We provide instances that show that all the inclusions are strict. We extend the NP-completeness proof of recognizing 2-interval graphs to the recognition of balanced 2-interval graphs. Finally we give hints on the complexity of unit 2-interval graphs recognition, by studying relationships with other graph classes: proper circular-arc, quasi-line graphs, K_{1,5}-free graphs, ... 
0704.01572	Exchange parameters from approximate self-interaction correction scheme	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:A. Akande, S. Sanvito	 Abstract: The approximate atomic self-interaction corrections (ASIC) method to density functional theory is put to the test by calculating the exchange interaction for a number of prototypical materials, critical to local exchange and correlation functionals. ASIC total energy calculations are mapped onto an Heisenberg pair-wise interaction and the exchange constants J are compared to those obtained with other methods. In general the ASIC scheme drastically improves the bandstructure, which for almost all the cases investigated resemble closely available photo-emission data. In contrast the results for the exchange parameters are less satisfactory. Although ASIC performs reasonably well for systems where the magnetism originates from half-filled bands, it suffers from similar problems than those of LDA for other situations. In particular the exchange constants are still overestimated. This reflects a subtle interplay between exchange and correlation energy, not captured by the ASIC. 
0704.01573	Generalized sqrt(epsilon)-law. The role of unphysical source terms in  resonance line polarization transfer and its importance as an additional test  of NLTE radiative transfer codes	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jiri Stepan, Veronique Bommier	 Abstract: Context. A derivation of a generalized sqrt(epsilon)-law for nonthermal collisional rates of excitation by charged perturbers is presented. Aims. Aim of this paper is to find a more general analytical expression for a surface value of the source function which can be used as an addtional tool for verification of the non-LTE radiative transfer codes. Methods. Under the impact approximation hypothesis, static, one-dimensional, plane-parallel atmosphere, constant magnetic field of arbitrary strength and direction, two-level atom model with unpolarized lower level and stimulated emission neglected, we introduce the unphysical terms into the equations of statistical equilibrium and solve the appropriate non-LTE integral equations. Results. We derive a new analytical condition for the surface values of the source function components expressed in the basis of irreducible spherical tensors. 
0704.01574	Retarded electric and magnetic fields of a moving charge: Feynman's  derivation of Liénard-Wiechert potentials revisited	Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)	Authors:J.H. Field	 Abstract: Retarded electromagnetic potentials are derived from Maxwell's equations and the Lorenz condition. The difference found between these potentials and the conventional Li\'{e}nard-Wiechert ones is explained by neglect, for the latter, of the motion-dependence of the effective charge density. The corresponding retarded fields of a point-like charge in arbitary motion are compared with those given by the formulae of Heaviside, Feynman, Jefimenko and other authors. The fields of an accelerated charge given by the Feynman are the same as those derived from the Li\'{e}nard-Wiechert potentials but not those given by the Jefimenko formulae. A mathematical error concerning partial space and time derivatives in the derivation of the Jefimenko equations is pointed out. 
0704.01575	On the characterization of isotropic Gaussian fields on homogeneous  spaces of compact groups	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:P.Baldi, D.Marinucci, V.S.Varadarajan	 Abstract: Let T be a random field invariant under the action of a compact group G We give conditions ensuring that independence of the random Fourier coefficients is equivalent to Gaussianity. As a consequence, in general it is not possible to simulate a non-Gaussian invariant random field through its Fourier expansion using independent coefficients. 
0704.01576	A Catalog of Star Cluster Candidates in M33	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ata Sarajedini, Conor L. Mancone	 Abstract: We present a new catalog of star cluster candidates in the nearby spiral galaxy M33. It is based on eight existing catalogs wherein we have cross-referenced identifications and endeavored to resolve inconsistencies between them. Our catalog contains 451 candidates of which 255 are confirmed clusters based on HST and high resolution ground-based imaging. The catalog contains precise cluster positions (RA and Dec), magnitudes and colors in the UBVRIJHKs filters, metallicities, radial velocities, masses and ages, where available, and galactocentric distances for each cluster. The color distribution of the M33 clusters appears to be similar to those in the Large Magellanic Cloud with major peaks at (B-V)o~0.15, and (B-V)o~0.65. The intrinsic colors are correlated with cluster ages, which range from 10^{7.5} to 10^{10.3} years. The age distribution of the star clusters supports the notion of rapid cluster disruption with a slope of alpha=-1.09 +/- 0.07 in the dN_{cluster}/dt ~ t^{alpha} relation. In addition, comparison to theoretical single stellar population models suggests the presence of an age-metallicity relation among these clusters with younger clusters being more metal-rich. Analysis of the radial distribution of the clusters yields some evidence that younger clusters (age <~ 1 Gyr) may be more concentrated toward the center of M33 than older ones. A similar comparison with the radial profile of the M33 field stars shows the clusters to be more centrally concentrated at the greater than 99.9% confidence level. Possible reasons for this are presented and discussed; however, the overwhelming conclusion seems to be that a more complete and thorough cluster search is needed covering at least 4 square degrees centered on M33. 
0704.01577	Sharp dark-mode resonances in planar metamaterials with broken  structural symmetry	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:V. A. Fedotov, M. Rose, S. L. Prosvirnin, N. Papasimakis, N. I. Zheludev	 Abstract: We report that resonant response with a very high quality factor can be achieved in a planar metamaterial by introducing symmetry breaking in the shape of its structural elements, which enables excitation of dark modes, i.e. modes that are weakly coupled to free space. 
0704.01578	Proper motion L and T dwarf candidate members of the Pleiades	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S.L.Casewell, P.D. Dobbie, S.T. Hodgkin, E. Moraux, R.F. Jameson, N.C. Hambly, J. Irwin, N Lodieu	 Abstract: We present the results of a deep optical-near-infrared multi-epoch survey covering 2.5 square degrees of the Pleiades open star cluster to search for new very-low-mass brown dwarf members. A significant (~ 5 year) epoch difference exists between the optical (CFH12k I-, Z-band) and near infrared (UKIRT WFCAM J-band) observations. We construct I,I-Z and Z,Z-J colour magnitude diagrams to select candidate cluster members. Proper motions are computed for all candidate members and compared to the background field objects to further refine the sample. We recover all known cluster members within the area of our survey. In addition, we have discovered 9 new candidate brown dwarf cluster members. The 7 faintest candidates have red Z-J colours and show blue near-infrared colours. These are consistent with being L and T-type Pleiads. Theoretical models predict their masses to be around 11 Jupiter masses. There is 1 errata for this paper 
0704.01579	A Study of Catalogued Nearby Galaxy Clusters in the SDSS-DR4: I. Cluster  Global Properties	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. A. L. Aguerri, R. Sanchez-Janssen, C. Munoz-Tunon	 Abstract: We have selected a sample of 88 nearby (z<0.1) galaxy clusters from the SDSS-DR4 with redshift information for the cluster members. We have derived global properties for each cluster, such as their mean recessional velocity, velocity dispersion, and virial radii. Cluster galaxies have been grouped in two families according to their $u-r$ colours. The total sample consists of 10865 galaxies. As expected, the highest fraction of galaxies (62%) turned to be early-type (red) ones, being located at smaller distances from the cluster centre and showing lower velocity dispersions than late-type (blue) ones. The brightest cluster galaxies are located in the innermost regions and show the smallest velocity dispersions. Early-type galaxies also show constant velocity dispersion profiles inside the virial radius and a mild decline in the outermost regions. In contrast, late-type galaxies show always decreasing velocity dispersions profiles. No correlation has been found between the fraction of blue galaxies and cluster global properties, such as cluster velocity dispersion and galaxy concentration. In contrast, we found correlation between the X-ray luminosity and the fraction of blue galaxies. These results indicate that early- and late-type galaxies may have had different evolution. Thus, blue galaxies are located in more anisotropic and radial orbits than early-type ones. Their star formation seems to be independent of the cluster global properties in low mass clusters, but not for the most massive ones. These observational results suggest that the global environment could be important for driving the evolution of galaxies in the most massive cluster ($\sigma > 800$ km s$^{-1}$). However, the local environment could play a key role in galaxy evolution for low mass clusters. 
0704.01580	Optical implementation and entanglement distribution in Gaussian valence  bond states	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Gerardo Adesso, Marie Ericsson	 Abstract: We study Gaussian valence bond states of continuous variable systems, obtained as the outputs of projection operations from an ancillary space of M infinitely entangled bonds connecting neighboring sites, applied at each of $N$ sites of an harmonic chain. The entanglement distribution in Gaussian valence bond states can be controlled by varying the input amount of entanglement engineered in a (2M+1)-mode Gaussian state known as the building block, which is isomorphic to the projector applied at a given site. We show how this mechanism can be interpreted in terms of multiple entanglement swapping from the chain of ancillary bonds, through the building blocks. We provide optical schemes to produce bisymmetric three-mode Gaussian building blocks (which correspond to a single bond, M=1), and study the entanglement structure in the output Gaussian valence bond states. The usefulness of such states for quantum communication protocols with continuous variables, like telecloning and teleportation networks, is finally discussed. 
0704.01581	Rich magnetic phase diagram in the Kagome-staircase compound Mn3V2O8	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:E. Morosan, J. Fleitman, T. Klimczuk, R. J. Cava	 Abstract: Mn3V2O8 is a magnetic system in which S = 5/2 Mn2+ is found in the kagome staircase lattice. Here we report the magnetic phase diagram for temperatures above 2 K and applied magnetic fields below 9 T, characterized by measurements of the magnetization and specific heat with field along the three unique lattice directions. At low applied magnetic fields, the system first orders magnetically below Tm1 ~ 21 K, and then shows a second magnetic phase transition at Tm2 ~ 15 K. In addition, a phase transition that is apparent in specific heat but not seen in magnetization is found for all three applied field orientations, converging towards Tm2 as H -> 0. The magnetic behavior is highly anisotropic, with critical fields for magnetic phase boundaries much higher when the field is applied perpendicular to the Kagome staircase plane than when applied in-plane. The field-temperature (H - T) phase diagrams are quite rich, with 7 distinct phases observed. 
0704.01582	L^2-Betti numbers of coamenable quantum groups	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:David Kyed	 Abstract: We prove that a compact quantum group is coamenable if and only if its corepresentation ring is amenable. We further propose a Foelner condition for compact quantum groups and prove it to be equivalent to coamenability. Using this Foelner condition, we prove that for a coamenable compact quantum group with tracial Haar state, the enveloping von Neumann algebra is dimension flat over the Hopf algebra of matrix coefficients. This generalizes a theorem of Lueck from the group case to the quantum group case, and provides examples of compact quantum groups with vanishing L^2-Betti numbers. 
0704.01583	OPserver: interactive online-computations of opacities and radiative  accelerations	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C. Mendoza, M.J. Seaton, P. Buerger, A. Bellorin, M. Melendez, J. Gonzalez, L.S. Rodriguez, F. Delahaye, E. Palacios, A.K. Pradhan, C.J. Zeippen	 Abstract: Codes to compute mean opacities and radiative accelerations for arbitrary chemical mixtures using the Opacity Project recently revised data have been restructured in a client--server architecture and transcribed as a subroutine library. This implementation increases efficiency in stellar modelling where element stratification due to diffusion processes is depth dependent, and thus requires repeated fast opacity reestimates. Three user modes are provided to fit different computing environments, namely a web browser, a local workstation and a distributed grid. 
0704.01584	Can One Estimate The Unconditional Distribution of Post-Model-Selection  Estimators?	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Hannes Leeb, Benedikt M. Poetscher	 Abstract: We consider the problem of estimating the unconditional distribution of a post-model-selection estimator. The notion of a post-model-selection estimator here refers to the combined procedure resulting from first selecting a model (e.g., by a model selection criterion like AIC or by a hypothesis testing procedure) and then estimating the parameters in the selected model (e.g., by least-squares or maximum likelihood), all based on the same data set. We show that it is impossible to estimate the unconditional distribution with reasonable accuracy even asymptotically. In particular, we show that no estimator for this distribution can be uniformly consistent (not even locally). This follows as a corollary to (local) minimax lower bounds on the performance of estimators for the distribution; performance is here measured by the probability that the estimation error exceeds a given threshold. These lower bounds are shown to approach 1/2 or even 1 in large samples, depending on the situation considered. Similar impossibility results are also obtained for the distribution of linear functions (e.g., predictors) of the post-model-selection estimator. 
0704.01585	Fixed Phase Quantum Search Algorithm	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Ahmed Younes	 Abstract: Building quantum devices using fixed operators is a must to simplify the hardware construction. Quantum search engine is not an exception. In this paper, a fixed phase quantum search algorithm that searches for M matches in an unstructured search space of size N will be presented. Selecting phase shifts of 1.91684\pi in the standard amplitude amplification will make the technique perform better so as to get probability of success at least 99.58% in O(sqrt(N/M)) better than any know fixed operator quantum search algorithms. The algorithm will be able to handle either a single match or multiple matches in the search space. The algorithm will find a match in O(sqrt(N/M)) whether the number of matches is known or not in advance. 
0704.01586	Core excitation in the elastic scattering and breakup of $^{11}$Be on  protons	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:N.C. Summers, F.M. Nunes	 Abstract: The elastic scattering and breakup of $^{11}$Be from a proton target at intermediate energies is studied. We explore the role of core excitation in the reaction mechanism. Comparison with the data suggests that there is still missing physics in the description. 
0704.01587	Possible X-ray diagnostic for jet/disk dominance in Type 1 AGN	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Barbara J. Mattson, Kimberly A. Weaver, Christopher S. Reynolds	 Abstract: Using Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer Seyfert 1 and 1.2 data spanning 9 years, we study correlations between X-ray spectral features. The sample consists of 350 time-resolved spectra from 12 Seyfert 1 and 1.2 galaxies. Each spectrum is fitted to a model with an intrinsic powerlaw X-ray spectrum produced close to the central black hole that is reprocessed and absorbed by material around the black hole. To test the robustness of our results, we performed Monte Carlo simulations of the spectral sample. We find a complex relationship between the iron line equivalent width (EW) and the underlying power law index (Gamma). The data reveal a correlation between Gamma and EW which turns over at Gamma <~ 2, but finds a weak anti-correlation for steeper photon indices. We propose that this relationship is driven by dilution of a disk spectrum (which includes the narrow iron line) by a beamed jet component and, hence, could be used as a diagnostic of jet-dominance. In addition, our sample shows a strong correlation between the reflection fraction (R) and Gamma, but we find that it is likely the result of modeling degeneracies. We also see the X-ray Baldwin effect (an anti-correlation between the 2-10 keV X-ray luminosity and EW) for the sample as a whole, but not for the individual galaxies and galaxy types. 
0704.01588	On algebraic automorphisms and their rational invariants	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Philippe Bonnet	 Abstract: Let X be an affine irreducible variety over an algebraically closed field k of characteristic zero. Given an automorphism F, we denote by k(X)^F its field of invariants, i.e. the set of rational functions f on X such that f(F)=f. Let n(F) be the transcendence degree of k(X)^F over k. In this paper, we study the class of automorphisms F of X for which n(F)= dim X - 1. More precisely, we show that under some conditions on X, every such automorphism is of the form F=A_g, where A is an algebraic action of a linear algebraic group G of dimension 1 on X, and where g belongs to G. As an application, we determine the conjugacy classes of automorphisms of the plane for which n(F)=1. 
0704.01589	Improving immunization strategies	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Lazaros K. Gallos, Fredrik Liljeros, Panos Argyrakis, Armin Bunde, Shlomo Havlin	 Abstract: We introduce an immunization method where the percentage of required vaccinations for immunity are close to the optimal value of a targeted immunization scheme of highest degree nodes. Our strategy retains the advantage of being purely local, without the need of knowledge on the global network structure or identification of the highest degree nodes. The method consists of selecting a random node and asking for a neighbor that has more links than himself or more than a given threshold and immunizing him. We compare this method to other efficient strategies on three real social networks and on a scale-free network model, and find it to be significantly more effective. 
0704.01590	Constraints on the Very Early Universe from Thermal WIMP Dark Matter	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Manuel Drees, Hoernisa Iminniyaz, Mitsuru Kakizaki	 Abstract: We investigate the relic density n_\chi of non-relativistic long-lived or stable particles \chi in non-standard cosmological scenarios. We calculate the relic abundance starting from arbitrary initial temperatures of the radiation-dominated epoch, and derive the lower bound on the initial temperature T_0 \geq m_\chi/23, assuming that thermally produced \chi particles account for the dark matter energy density in the universe; this bound holds for all \chi annihilation cross sections. We also investigate cosmological scenarios with modified expansion rate. Even in this case an approximate formula similar to the standard one is capable of predicting the final relic abundance correctly. Choosing the \chi annihilation cross section such that the observed cold dark matter abundance is reproduced in standard cosmology, we constrain possible modifications of the expansion rate at T \sim m_\chi/20, well before Big Bang nucleosynthesis. 
0704.01591	Flavour-Dependent Type II Leptogenesis	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Stefan Antusch	 Abstract: We reanalyse leptogenesis via the out-of-equilibrium decay of the lightest right-handed neutrino in type II seesaw scenarios, taking into account flavour-dependent effects. In the type II seesaw mechanism, in addition to the type I seesaw contribution, an additional direct mass term for the light neutrinos is present. We consider type II seesaw scenarios where this additional contribution arises from the vacuum expectation value of a Higgs triplet, and furthermore an effective model-independent approach. We investigate bounds on the flavour-specific decay asymmetries, on the mass of the lightest right-handed neutrino and on the reheat temperature of the early universe, and compare them to the corresponding bounds in the type I seesaw framework. We show that while flavour-dependent thermal type II leptogenesis becomes more efficient for larger mass scale of the light neutrinos, and the bounds become relaxed, the type I seesaw scenario for leptogenesis becomes more constrained. We also argue that in general, flavour-dependent effects cannot be ignored when dealing with leptogenesis in type II seesaw models. 
0704.01592	Multi-wavelength Analysis of a Quiet Solar Region	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G. Tsiropoula, K. Tziotziou, J. Giannikakis, P. Young, U. Schuehle, P. Heinzel	 Abstract: We present observations of a solar quiet region obtained by the ground-based Dutch Open Telescope (DOT), and by instruments on the spacecraft SOHO and TRACE. The observations were obtained during a coordinated observing campaign on October 2005. The aim of this work is to present the rich diversity of fine-scale structures that are found at the network boundaries and their appearance in different instruments and different spectral lines that span the photosphere to the corona. Detailed studies of these structures are crucial to understanding their dynamics in different solar layers, as well as the role such structures play in the mass balance and heating of the solar atmosphere. 
0704.01593	Orbital currents in the Colle-Salvetti correlation energy functional and  the degeneracy problem	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:S. Pittalis, S. Kurth, S. Sharma, E.K.U. Gross	 Abstract: Popular density functionals for the exchange-correlation energy typically fail to reproduce the degeneracy of different ground states of open-shell atoms. As a remedy, functionals which explicitly depend on the current density have been suggested. We present an analysis of this problem by investigating functionals that explicitly depend on the Kohn-Sham orbitals. Going beyond the exact-exchange approximation by adding correlation in the form of the Colle-Salvetti functional we show how current-dependent terms enter the Colle-Salvetti expression and their relevance is evaluated. A very good description of the degeneracy of ground-states for atoms of the first and second row of the periodic table is obtained. 
0704.01594	Cooper pairs in atomic nuclei	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:G. G. Dussel, S. Pittel, J. Dukelsky, P. Sarriguren	 Abstract: We consider the development of Cooper pairs in a self-consistent Hartree Fock mean field for the even Sm isotopes. Results are presented at the level of a BCS treatment, a number-projected BCS treatment and an exact treatment using the Richardson ansatz. While projected BCS captures much of the pairing correlation energy that is absent from BCS, it still misses a sizable correlation energy, typically of order $1 MeV$. Furthermore, because it does not average over the properties of the fermion pairs, the exact Richardson solution permits a more meaningful definition of the Cooper wave function and of the fraction of pairs that are collective. 
0704.01595	An adaptive numerical method for the Vlasov equation based on a  multiresolution analysis	Numerical Analysis (math.NA)	Authors:Nicolas Besse (IRMA, CEA/DAM), Francis Filbet (IRMA), Michael Gutnic (IRMA), Ioana Paun (IRMA), Eric Sonnendrücker (IRMA)	 Abstract: In this paper, we present very first results for the adaptive solution on a grid of the phase space of the Vlasov equation arising in particles accelarator and plasma physics. The numerical algorithm is based on a semi-Lagrangian method while adaptivity is obtained using multiresolution analysis. 
0704.01596	Turbulence and the Navier-Stokes equations	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:R. M. Kiehn	 Abstract: The concept of continuous topological evolution, based upon Cartan's methods of exterior differential systems, is used to develop a topological theory of non-equilibrium thermodynamics, within which there exist processes that exhibit continuous topological change and thermodynamic irreversibility. The technique furnishes a universal, topological foundation for the partial differential equations of hydrodynamics and electrodynamics; the technique does not depend upon a metric, connection or a variational principle. Certain topological classes of solutions to the Navier-Stokes equations are shown to be equivalent to thermodynamically irreversible processes. 
0704.01597	Numerical estimation of critical parameters using the Bond entropy	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Rafael A. Molina, Peter Schmitteckert	 Abstract: Using a model of spinless fermions in a lattice with nearest neighbor and next-nearest neighbor interaction we show that the entropy of the reduced two site density matrix (the bond entropy) can be used as an extremely accurate and easy to calculate numerical indicator for the critical parameters of the quantum phase transition when the basic ordering pattern has a two-site periodicity. The actual behavior of the bond entropy depends on the particular characteristics of the transition under study. For the Kosterlitz-Thouless type phase transition from a Luttinger liquid phase to a charge density wave state the bond entropy has a local maximum while in the transition from the Luttinger liquid to the phase separated state the derivative of the bond entropy has a divergence due to the cancelation of the third eigenvalue of the two-site reduced density matrix. 
0704.01598	Radiative transitions of the helium atom in highly magnetized neutron  star atmospheres	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Zach Medin, Dong Lai (Cornell), Alexander Y. Potekhin (Ioffe Inst., St. Petersburg)	 Abstract: Recent observations of thermally emitting isolated neutron stars revealed spectral features that could be interpreted as radiative transitions of He in a magnetized neutron star atmosphere. We present Hartree-Fock calculations of the polarization-dependent photoionization cross sections of the He atom in strong magnetic fields ranging from 10^12 G to 10^14 G. Convenient fitting formulae for the cross sections are given as well as related oscillator strengths for various bound-bound transitions. The effects of finite nucleus mass on the radiative absorption cross sections are examined using perturbation theory. 
0704.01599	Critical points for surface maps and the Benedicks-Carleson theorem	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Hiroki Takahasi	 Abstract: We give an alternative proof of the Benedicks-Carleson theorem on the existence of strange attractors in H\'enon-like families in the plane. To bypass a huge inductive argument, we introduce an induction-free explicit definition of dynamically critical points. The argument is sufficiently general and in particular applies to the case of non-invertible maps as well. It naturally raises the question of an intrinsic characterization of dynamically critical points for dissipative surface maps. 
0704.01600	The VIMOS VLT Deep Survey. The Assembly History of the Stellar Mass in  Galaxies: from the Young to the Old Universe	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:L. Pozzetti, M. Bolzonella, F. Lamareille, G. Zamorani, P. Franzetti, O. Le Fèvre, A. Iovino, S. Temporin, O. Ilbert, S. Arnouts, S. Charlot, J. Brinchmann, E. Zucca, L. Tresse, M. Scodeggio, L. Guzzo, D. Bottini, B. Garilli, V. Le Brun, D. Maccagni, J. P. Picat, R. Scaramella, G. Vettolani, A. Zanichelli, C. Adami, S. Bardelli, A. Cappi, P. Ciliegi, T. Contini, S. Foucaud, I. Gavignaud, H. J. McCracken, B. Marano, C. Marinoni, A. Mazure, B. Meneux, R. Merighi, S. Paltani, R. Pellò, A. Pollo, M. Radovich, M. Bondi, A. Bongiorno, O. Cucciati, S. de la Torre, L. Gregorini, Y. Mellier, P. Merluzzi, D. Vergani, C. J. Walcher	 Abstract: We present a detailed analysis of the Galaxy Stellar Mass Function of galaxies up to z=2.5 as obtained from the VVDS. We estimate the stellar mass from broad-band photometry using 2 different assumptions on the galaxy star formation history and show that the addition of secondary bursts to a continuous star formation history produces systematically higher (up to 40%) stellar masses. At low redshift (z=0.2) we find a substantial population of low-mass galaxies (<10^9 Msun) composed by faint blue galaxies (M_I-M_K=0.3). In general the stellar mass function evolves slowly up to z=0.9 and more significantly above this redshift. Conversely, a massive tail is present up to z=2.5 and have extremely red colours (M_I-M_K=0.7-0.8). We find a decline with redshift of the overall number density of galaxies for all masses (59+-5% for M>10^8 Msun at z=1), and a mild mass-dependent average evolution (`mass-downsizing'). In particular our data are consistent with mild/negligible (<30%) evolution up to z=0.7 for massive galaxies (>6x10^10 Msun). For less massive systems the no-evolution scenario is excluded. A large fraction (>=50%) of massive galaxies have been already assembled and converted most of their gas into stars at z=1, ruling out the `dry mergers' as the major mechanism of their assembly history below z=1. This fraction decreases to 33% at z=2. Low-mass systems have decreased continuously in number and mass density (by a factor up to 4) from the present age to z=2, consistently with a prolonged mass assembly also at z<1. 
0704.01601	Spontaneous symmetry breaking of solitons trapped in a double-channel  potential	Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)	Authors:M. Matuszewski, B. A. Malomed, M. Trippenbach	 Abstract: We consider a two-dimensional (2D) nonlinear Schrodinger equation with self-focusing nonlinearity and a quasi-1D double-channel potential, i.e., a straightforward 2D extension of the well-known double-well potential. The model may be realized in terms of nonlinear optics and Bose-Einstein condensates. The variational approximation (VA) predicts a bifurcation breaking the symmetry of 2D solitons trapped in the double channel, the bifurcation being of the subcritical type. The predictions of the VA are confirmed by numerical simulations. The work presents the first example of the spontaneous symmetry breaking (SSB) of 2D solitons in any dual-core system. 
0704.01602	What does Hirsch index evolution explain us? A case study: Turkish  Journal of Chemistry	Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)	Authors:Metin Orbay, Orhan Karamustafaoglu, Feda Oner (Amasya University, Education Faculty, Amasya-Turkey)	 Abstract: The evolution of Turkish Journal of Chemistry (Turk J. Chem) Hirsch index (h-index) over the period 1995-2005 is studied and determined in the case of the self and without self-citations. It is seen that the effect of Hirsch index of Turk J. Chem has a highly positive trend during the last five years. It proves that Turk J. Chem is improving itself both in quantity and quality since h-index reflects peer review, and peer review reflects research quality of a journal. 
0704.01603	Measuring energy dependent polarization in soft gamma-rays using Compton  scattering in PoGOLite	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Axelsson, O. Engdegård, F. Ryde, S. Larsson, M. Pearce, L. Hjalmarsdotter, M. Kiss, C. Marini Bettolo, M. Arimoto, C-I. Björnsson, P. Carlson, Y. Fukazawa, T. Kamae, Y. Kanai, J. Kataoka, N. Kawai, W. Klamra, G. Madejski, T. Mizuno, J. Ng, H. Tajima, T. Takahashi, T. Tanaka, M. Ueno, G. Varner, K. Yamamoto	 Abstract: Linear polarization in X- and gamma-rays is an important diagnostic of many astrophysical sources, foremost giving information about their geometry, magnetic fields, and radiation mechanisms. However, very few X-ray polarization measurements have been made, and then only mono-energetic detections, whilst several objects are assumed to have energy dependent polarization signatures. In this paper we investigate whether detection of energy dependent polarization from cosmic sources is possible using the Compton technique, in particular with the proposed PoGOLite balloon-experiment, in the 25-100 keV range. We use Geant4 simulations of a PoGOLite model and input photon spectra based on Cygnus X-1 and accreting magnetic pulsars (100 mCrab). Effective observing times of 6 and 35 hours were simulated, corresponding to a standard and a long duration flight respectively. Both smooth and sharp energy variations of the polarization are investigated and compared to constant polarization signals using chi-square statistics. We can reject constant polarization, with energy, for the Cygnus X-1 spectrum (in the hard state), if the reflected component is assumed to be completely polarized, whereas the distinction cannot be made for weaker polarization. For the accreting pulsar, constant polarization can be rejected in the case of polarization in a narrow energy band with at least 50% polarization, and similarly for a negative step distribution from 30% to 0% polarization. 
0704.01604	Baryon Number-Induced Chern-Simons Couplings of Vector and Axial-Vector  Mesons in Holographic QCD	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Sophia K. Domokos, Jeffrey A. Harvey	 Abstract: We show that holographic models of QCD predict the presence of a Chern-Simons coupling between vector and axial-vector mesons at finite baryon density. In the AdS/CFT dictionary, the coefficient of this coupling is proportional to the baryon number density, and is fixed uniquely in the five-dimensional holographic dual by anomalies in the flavor currents. For the lightest mesons, the coupling mixes transverse $\rho$ and $a_1$ polarization states. At sufficiently large baryon number densities, it produces an instability, which causes the $\rho$ and $a_1$ mesons to condense in a state breaking both rotational and translational invariance. 
0704.01605	Total Quantum Zeno Effect beyond Zeno Time	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:D. Mundarain, M. Orszag, J. Stephany	 Abstract: In this work we show that is possible to obtain Total Quantum Zeno Effect in an unstable systems for times larger than the correlation time of the bath. The effect is observed for some particular systems in which one can chose appropriate observables which frequent measurements freeze the system into the initial state. For a two level system in a squeezed bath one can show that there are two bath dependent observables displaying Total Zeno Effect when the system is initialized in some particular states. We show also that these states are intelligent states of two conjugate observables associated to the electromagnetic fluctuations of the bath. 
0704.01606	Asteroseismic Signatures of Stellar Magnetic Activity Cycles	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T.S. Metcalfe, W.A. Dziembowski, P.G. Judge, M. Snow	 Abstract: Observations of stellar activity cycles provide an opportunity to study magnetic dynamos under many different physical conditions. Space-based asteroseismology missions will soon yield useful constraints on the interior conditions that nurture such magnetic cycles, and will be sensitive enough to detect shifts in the oscillation frequencies due to the magnetic variations. We derive a method for predicting these shifts from changes in the Mg II activity index by scaling from solar data. We demonstrate this technique on the solar-type subgiant beta Hyi, using archival International Ultraviolet Explorer spectra and two epochs of ground-based asteroseismic observations. We find qualitative evidence of the expected frequency shifts and predict the optimal timing for future asteroseismic observations of this star. 
0704.01607	Anomalous energy transport in the FPU-beta chain	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Jani Lukkarinen, Herbert Spohn	 Abstract: We consider the energy current correlation function for the FPU-beta lattice. For small non-linearity one can rely on kinetic theory. The issue reduces then to a spectral analysis of the linearized collision operator. We prove thereby that, on the basis of kinetic theory, the energy current correlations decay in time as t^(-3/5). It follows that the thermal conductivity is anomalous, increasing as N^(2/5) with the system size N. 
0704.01608	Diffractive parton distributions from the analysis with higher twist	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:K. Golec-Biernat, A. Luszczak	 Abstract: Diffractive parton distributions of the proton are determined from fits to diffractive data from HERA. In addition to the twist--2 contribution, the twist--4 contribution from longitudinally polarised virtual photons is considered, which is important in the region of small diffractive masses. A new prediction for the longitudinal diffractive structure function is presented which differs significantly from that obtained in the pure twist--2 analyses. 
0704.01609	GRB 061121: Broadband spectral evolution through the prompt and  afterglow phases of a bright burst	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K.L. Page (1), R. Willingale (1), J.P. Osborne (1), B. Zhang (2), O. Godet (1), F.E. Marshall (3), A. Melandri (4), J.P. Norris (5,6), P.T. O'Brien (1), V. Pal'shin (7), E. Rol (1), P. Romano (8,9), R.L.C. Starling (1), P. Schady (10), S.A. Yost (11), S.D. Barthelmy (3), A.P. Beardmore (1), G. Cusumano (12), D.N. Burrows (13), M. De Pasquale (10), M. Ehle (14), P.A. Evans (1), N. Gehrels (3), M.R. Goad (1), S. Golenetskii (7), C. Guidorzi (8,9), C. Mundell (4), M.J. Page (10), G. Ricker (15), T. Sakamoto (3), B.E. Schaefer (16), M. Stamatikos (3), E. Troja (1,1), M.Ulanov (7), F. Yuan (11), H. Ziaeepour (9) ((1) University of Leicester, (2) University of Nevada, (3) NASA/GSFC, (4) Liverpool John Moores University, (5) University of Denver, (6) Stanford University, (7) Ioffe Physico-Technical Institute, (8) Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera, (9) Universita' di Milano-Bicocca, (10) MSSL, (11) University of Michigan, (12) INAF-IASF, Sezione di Palermo, (13) Pennsylvania State University, (14) XMM-Newton Science Operations Centre, (15) MIT, (16) Louisiana State University)	 Abstract: Swift triggered on a precursor to the main burst of GRB 061121 (z=1.314), allowing observations to be made from the optical to gamma-ray bands. Many other telescopes, including Konus-Wind, XMM-Newton, ROTSE and the Faulkes Telescope North, also observed the burst. The gamma-ray, X-ray and UV/optical emission all showed a peak ~75s after the trigger, although the optical and X-ray afterglow components also appear early on - before, or during, the main peak. Spectral evolution was seen throughout the burst, with the prompt emission showing a clear positive correlation between brightness and hardness. The Spectral Energy Distribution (SED) of the prompt emission, stretching from 1eV up to 1MeV, is very flat, with a peak in the flux density at ~1keV. The optical-to-X-ray spectra at this time are better fitted by a broken, rather than single, power-law, similar to previous results for X-ray flares. The SED shows spectral hardening as the afterglow evolves with time. This behaviour might be a symptom of self-Comptonisation, although circumstellar densities similar to those found in the cores of molecular clouds would be required. The afterglow also decays too slowly to be accounted for by the standard models. Although the precursor and main emission show different spectral lags, both are consistent with the lag-luminosity correlation for long bursts. GRB 061121 is the instantaneously brightest long burst yet detected by Swift. Using a combination of Swift and Konus-Wind data, we estimate an isotropic energy of 2.8x10^53 erg over 1keV - 10MeV in the GRB rest frame. A probable jet break is detected at ~2x10^5s, leading to an estimate of ~10^51 erg for the beaming-corrected gamma-ray energy. 
0704.01610	High-altitude signatures of ionospheric density depletions caused by  field-aligned currents	Space Physics (physics.space-ph)	Authors:T. Karlsson, N. Brenning, O. Marghitu, G. Marklund, S. Buchert	 Abstract: We present Cluster measurements of large electric fields correlated with intense downward field-aligned currents, and show that the data can be reproduced by a simple model of ionospheric plasma depletion caused by the currents. This type of magnetosphere-ionosphere interaction may be important when considering the mapping between these two regions of space. 
0704.01611	Burgers Turbulence	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:Jeremie Bec, Konstantin Khanin	 Abstract: The last decades witnessed a renewal of interest in the Burgers equation. Much activities focused on extensions of the original one-dimensional pressureless model introduced in the thirties by the Dutch scientist J.M. Burgers, and more precisely on the problem of Burgers turbulence, that is the study of the solutions to the one- or multi-dimensional Burgers equation with random initial conditions or random forcing. Such work was frequently motivated by new emerging applications of Burgers model to statistical physics, cosmology, and fluid dynamics. Also Burgers turbulence appeared as one of the simplest instances of a nonlinear system out of equilibrium. The study of random Lagrangian systems, of stochastic partial differential equations and their invariant measures, the theory of dynamical systems, the applications of field theory to the understanding of dissipative anomalies and of multiscaling in hydrodynamic turbulence have benefited significantly from progress in Burgers turbulence. The aim of this review is to give a unified view of selected work stemming from these rather diverse disciplines. 
0704.01612	Analytical evaluation of the X-ray scattering contribution to imaging  degradation in grazing-incidence X-ray telescopes	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Daniele Spiga (INAF/Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera)	 Abstract: The focusing performance of X-ray optics (conveniently expressed in terms of HEW, Half Energy Width) strongly depend on both mirrors deformations and photon scattering caused by the microroughness of reflecting surfaces. In particular, the contribution of X-ray Scattering (XRS) to the HEW of the optic is usually an increasing function H(E) of the photon energy E. Therefore, in future hard X-ray imaging telescopes of the future (SIMBOL-X, NeXT, Constellation-X, XEUS), the X-ray scattering could be the dominant problem since they will operate also in the hard X-ray band (i.e. beyond 10 keV). [...] Several methods were proposed in the past years to estimate the scattering contribution to the HEW, dealing with the surface microroughness expressed in terms of its Power Spectral Density (PSD), on the basis of the well-established theory of X-ray scattering from rough surfaces. We faced that problem on the basis on the same theory, but we tried a new approach: the direct, analytical translation of a given surface roughness PSD into a H(E) trend, and - vice versa - the direct translation of a H(E) requirement into a surface PSD. This PSD represents the maximum tolerable microroughness level in order to meet the H(E) requirement in the energy band of a given X-ray telescope. We have thereby found a new, analytical and widely applicable formalism to compute the XRS contribution to the HEW from the surface PSD, provided that the PSD had been measured in a wide range of spatial frequencies. The inverse problem was also solved, allowing the immediate evaluation of the mirror surface PSD from a measured function H(E). The same formalism allows establishing the maximum allowed PSD of the mirror in order to fulfill a given H(E) requirement. [...] 
0704.01613	Reply to ``Comment on `On the inconsistency of the Bohm-Gadella theory  with quantum mechanics'''	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:R. de la Madrid	 Abstract: In this reply, we show that when we apply standard distribution theory to the Lippmann-Schwinger equation, the resulting spaces of test functions would comply with the Hardy axiom only if classic results of Paley and Wiener, of Gelfand and Shilov, and of the theory of ultradistributions were wrong. As well, we point out several differences between the ``standard method'' of constructing rigged Hilbert spaces in quantum mechanics and the method used in Time Asymmetric Quantum Theory. 
0704.01614	Modelling the Galactic bar using OGLE-II Red Clump Giant Stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nicholas J. Rattenbury, Shude Mao, Takahiro Sumi, Martin C. Smith	 Abstract: Red clump giant stars can be used as distance indicators to trace the mass distribution of the Galactic bar. We use RCG stars from 44 bulge fields from the OGLE-II microlensing collaboration database to constrain analytic tri-axial models for the Galactic bar. We find the bar major axis is oriented at an angle of 24 - 27 degrees to the Sun-Galactic centre line-of-sight. The ratio of semi-major and semi-minor bar axis scale lengths in the Galactic plane x_0, y_0, and vertical bar scale length z_0, is x_0 : y_0 : z_0 = 10 : 3.5 : 2.6, suggesting a slightly more prolate bar structure than the working model of Gerhard (2002) which gives the scale length ratios as x_0 : y_0 : z_0 = 10 : 4 : 3 . 
0704.01615	Dynamical Coupled-Channel Model of $πN$ Scattering in the W $\leq$ 2  GeV Nucleon Resonance Region	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:B. Julia-Diaz, T.-S. H. Lee, A. Matsuyama, T. Sato	 Abstract: As a first step to analyze the electromagnetic meson production reactions in the nucleon resonance region, the parameters of the hadronic interactions of a dynamical coupled-channel model, developed in {\it Physics Reports 439, 193 (2007)}, are determined by fitting the $\pi N$ scattering data. The channels included in the calculations are $\pi N$, $\eta N$ and $\pi\pi N$ which has $\pi\Delta$, $\rho N$, and $\sigma N$ resonant components. The non-resonant meson-baryon interactions of the model are derived from a set of Lagrangians by using a unitary transformation method. One or two bare excited nucleon states in each of $S$, $P$, $D$, and $F$ partial waves are included to generate the resonant amplitudes in the fits. The parameters of the model are first determined by fitting as much as possible the empirical $\pi N$ elastic scattering amplitudes of SAID up to 2 GeV. We then refine and confirm the resulting parameters by directly comparing the predicted differential cross section and target polarization asymmetry with the original data of the elastic $\pi^{\pm} p \to \pi^{\pm} p$ and charge-exchange $\pi^- p \to \pi^0 n$ processes. The predicted total cross sections of $\pi N$ reactions and $\pi N\to \eta N$ reactions are also in good agreement with the data. Applications of the constructed model in analyzing the electromagnetic meson production data as well as the future developments are discussed. 
0704.01616	Reply to Comment on "Chiral suppression of scalar glueball decay"	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Michael S. Chanowitz	 Abstract: Reply to the comment of Chao, He, and Ma. 
0704.01617	High-resolution study of a star-forming cluster in the Cep-A HW2 region	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C. Comito, P. Schilke, U. Endesfelder, I. Jimenez-Serra, J. Martin-Pintado	 Abstract: Due to its relatively small distance (725 pc), the Cepheus A East star-forming region is an ideal laboratory to study massive star formation processes. Based on its morphology, it has been suggested that the flattened molecular gas distribution around the YSO HW2 may be a 350-AU-radius massive protostellar disk. Goal of our work is to ascertain the nature of this structure. We have employed the Plateau de Bure Interferometer to acquire (sub-)arcsecond-resolution imaging of high-density and shock tracers, such as methyl cyanide (CH3CN) and silicon monoxide (SiO), towards the HW2 position. On the 1-arcsecond (about 725 AU) scale, the flattened distribution of molecular gas around HW2 appears to be due to the projected superposition, on the plane of the sky, of at least three protostellar objects, of which at least one is powering a molecular outflow at a small angle with respect to the line of sight. The presence of a protostellar disk around HW2 is not ruled out, but such structure is likely to be detected on a smaller spatial scale, or using different molecular tracers. 
0704.01618	A Renormalization group approach for highly anisotropic 2D Fermion  systems: application to coupled Hubbard chains	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:S. Moukouri	 Abstract: I apply a two-step density-matrix renormalization group method to the anisotropic two-dimensional Hubbard model. As a prelude to this study, I compare the numerical results to the exact one for the tight-binding model. I find a ground-state energy which agrees with the exact value up to four digits for systems as large as $24 \times 25$. I then apply the method to the interacting case. I find that for strong Hubbard interaction, the ground-state is dominated by magnetic correlations. These correlations are robust even in the presence of strong frustration. Interchain pair tunneling is negligible in the singlet and triplet channels and it is not enhanced by frustration. For weak Hubbard couplings, interchain non-local singlet pair tunneling is enhanced and magnetic correlations are strongly reduced. This suggests a possible superconductive ground state. 
0704.01619	Proper Motion Dispersions of Red Clump Giants in the Galactic Bulge:  Observations and Model Comparisons	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nicholas J. Rattenbury, Shude Mao, Victor P. Debattista, Takahiro Sumi, Ortwin Gerhard, Flavio De Lorenzi	 Abstract: Red clump giants in the Galactic bulge are approximate standard candles and hence they can be used as distance indicators. We compute the proper motion dispersions of RCG stars in the Galactic bulge using the proper motion catalogue from the second phase of the Optical Gravitational Microlensing Experiment (OGLE-II, Sumi et al. 2004) for 45 fields. The proper motion dispersions are measured to a few per cent accuracy due to the large number of stars in the fields. The observational sample is comprised of 577736 stars. These observed data are compared to a state-of-the-art particle simulation of the Galactic bulge region. The predictions are in rough agreement with observations, but appear to be too anisotropic in the velocity ellipsoid. We note that there is significant field-to-field variation in the observed proper motion dispersions. This could either be a real feature, or due to some unknown systematic effect. 
0704.01620	Intramolecular long-range correlations in polymer melts: The segmental  size distribution and its moments	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:J.P. Wittmer, P. Beckrich, H. Meyer, A. Cavallo, A. Johner, J. Baschnagel	 Abstract: Presenting theoretical arguments and numerical results we demonstrate long-range intrachain correlations in concentrated solutions and melts of long flexible polymers which cause a systematic swelling of short chain segments. They can be traced back to the incompressibility of the melt leading to an effective repulsion $u(s) \approx s/\rho R^3(s) \approx ce/\sqrt{s}$ when connecting two segments together where $s$ denotes the curvilinear length of a segment, $R(s)$ its typical size, $ce \approx 1/\rho be^3$ the ``swelling coefficient", $be$ the effective bond length and $\rho$ the monomer density. The relative deviation of the segmental size distribution from the ideal Gaussian chain behavior is found to be proportional to $u(s)$. The analysis of different moments of this distribution allows for a precise determination of the effective bond length $be$ and the swelling coefficient $ce$ of asymptotically long chains. At striking variance to the short-range decay suggested by Flory's ideality hypothesis the bond-bond correlation function of two bonds separated by $s$ monomers along the chain is found to decay algebraically as $1/s^{3/2}$. Effects of finite chain length are considered briefly. 
0704.01621	Stability Properties of Strongly Magnetized Spine Sheath Relativistic  Jets	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Philip E Hardee	 Abstract: The linearized relativistic magnetohydrodynamic (RMHD) equations describing a uniform axially magnetized cylindrical relativistic jet spine embedded in a uniform axially magnetized relativistically moving sheath are derived. The displacement current is retained in the equations so that effects associated with Alfven wave propagation near light speed can be studied. A dispersion relation for the normal modes is obtained. Analytical solutions for the normal modes in the low and high frequency limits are found and a general stability condition is determined. A trans-Alfvenic and even a super-Alfvenic relativistic jet spine can be stable to velocity shear driven Kelvin-Helmholtz modes. The resonance condition for maximum growth of the normal modes is obtained in the kinetically and magnetically dominated regimes. Numerical solution of the dispersion relation verifies the analytical solutions and is used to study the regime of high sound and Alfven speeds. 
0704.01622	MATLAB codes for teaching quantum physics: Part 1	Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)	Authors:Rafael Garcia (WPI), Alex Zozulya (WPI), James Stickney (WPI)	 Abstract: Among the ideas to be conveyed to students in an introductory quantum course, we have the pivotal idea championed by Dirac that functions correspond to column vectors (kets) and that differential operators correspond to matrices (ket-bras) acting on those vectors. The MATLAB (matrix-laboratory) programming environment is especially useful in conveying these concepts to students because it is geared towards the type of matrix manipulations useful in solving introductory quantum physics problems. In this article, we share MATLAB codes which have been developed at WPI, focusing on 1D problems, to be used in conjunction with Griffiths' introductory text. 
0704.01623	Nanodevices and Maxwell's Demon	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Supriyo Datta	 Abstract: In the last twenty years there has been significant progress in our understanding of quantum transport far from equilibrium and a conceptual framework has emerged through a combination of the Landauer approach with the non-equilibrium Green function (NEGF) method, which is now being widely used in the analysis and design of nanoscale devices. It provides a unified description for all kinds of devices from molecular conductors to carbon nanotubes to silicon transistors covering different transport regimes from the ballistic to the diffusive limit. In this talk I use a simple version of this model to analyze a specially designed device that could be called an electronic Maxwell's demon, one that lets electrons go preferentially in one direction over another. My objective is to illustrate the fundamental role of contacts and demons in transport and energy conversion. The discussion is kept at an academic level steering clear of real world details, but the illustrative devices we use are very much within the capabilities of present-day technology. For example, recent experiments on thermoelectric effects in molecular conductors agree well with the predictions from our model. The Maxwell's demon device itself is very similar to the pentalayer spin-torque device which has been studied by a number of groups though we are not aware of any discussion of the possibility of using the device as a nanoscale heat engine or as a refrigerator as proposed here. However, my objective is not to evaluate possible practical applications. Rather it is to introduce a simple transparent model showing how out-of-equibrium demons suitably incorporated into nanodevices can achieve energy conversion. 
0704.01624	Complete Segal spaces arising from simplicial categories	Algebraic Topology (math.AT)	Authors:Julia E. Bergner	 Abstract: In this paper, we compare several functors which take simplicial categories or model categories to complete Segal spaces, which are particularly nice simplicial spaces which, like simplicial categories, can be considered to be models for homotopy theories. We then give a characterization, up to weak equivalence, of complete Segal spaces arising from these functors. 
0704.01625	A Systematic Scan for 7-colourings of the Grid	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Markus Jalsenius, Kasper Pedersen	 Abstract: We study the mixing time of a systematic scan Markov chain for sampling from the uniform distribution on proper 7-colourings of a finite rectangular sub-grid of the infinite square lattice, the grid. A systematic scan Markov chain cycles through finite-size subsets of vertices in a deterministic order and updates the colours assigned to the vertices of each subset. The systematic scan Markov chain that we present cycles through subsets consisting of 2x2 sub-grids and updates the colours assigned to the vertices using a procedure known as heat-bath. We give a computer-assisted proof that this systematic scan Markov chain mixes in O(log n) scans, where n is the size of the rectangular sub-grid. We make use of a heuristic to compute required couplings of colourings of 2x2 sub-grids. This is the first time the mixing time of a systematic scan Markov chain on the grid has been shown to mix for less than 8 colours. We also give partial results that underline the challenges of proving rapid mixing of a systematic scan Markov chain for sampling 6-colourings of the grid by considering 2x3 and 3x3 sub-grids. 
0704.01626	Magnetic exponents of two-dimensional Ising spin glasses	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:F. Liers, O. C. Martin	 Abstract: The magnetic critical properties of two-dimensional Ising spin glasses are controversial. Using exact ground state determination, we extract the properties of clusters flipped when increasing continuously a uniform field. We show that these clusters have many holes but otherwise have statistical properties similar to those of zero-field droplets. A detailed analysis gives for the magnetization exponent delta = 1.30 +/- 0.02 using lattice sizes up to 80x80; this is compatible with the droplet model prediction delta = 1.282. The reason for previous disagreements stems from the need to analyze both singular and analytic contributions in the low-field regime. 
0704.01627	Thin elastic shells with variable thickness for lithospheric flexure of  one-plate planets	Geophysics (physics.geo-ph)	Authors:Mikael Beuthe	 Abstract: Planetary topography can either be modeled as a load supported by the lithosphere, or as a dynamical effect due to lithospheric flexure caused by mantle convection. In both cases the response of the lithosphere to external forces can be calculated with the theory of thin elastic plates or shells. On one-plate planets the spherical geometry of the lithospheric shell plays an important role in the flexure mechanism. So far the equations governing the deformations and stresses of a spherical shell have only been derived under the assumption of a shell of constant thickness. However local studies of gravity and topography data suggest large variations in the thickness of the lithosphere. In this article we obtain the scalar flexure equations governing the deformations of a thin spherical shell with variable thickness or variable Young's modulus. The resulting equations can be solved in succession, except for a system of two simultaneous equations, the solutions of which are the transverse deflection and an associated stress function. In order to include bottom loading generated by mantle convection, we extend the method of stress functions to include loads with a toroidal tangential component. We further show that toroidal tangential displacement always occurs if the shell thickness varies, even in the absence of toroidal loads. We finally prove that the degree-one harmonic components of the transverse deflection and of the toroidal tangential displacement are independent of the elastic properties of the shell and are associated with translational and rotational freedom. The flexure equations for a shell of variable thickness are useful not only for the prediction of the gravity signal in local admittance studies, but also for the construction of stress maps in tectonic analysis. 
0704.01628	Detection of single electron spin resonance in a double quantum dot	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:F. H. L. Koppens, C. Buizert, I. T. Vink, K.C. Nowack, T. Meunier, L. P. Kouwenhoven, L. M. K. Vandersypen	 Abstract: Spin-dependent transport measurements through a double quantum dot are a valuable tool for detecting both the coherent evolution of the spin state of a single electron as well as the hybridization of two-electron spin states. In this paper, we discuss a model that describes the transport cycle in this regime, including the effects of an oscillating magnetic field (causing electron spin resonance) and the effective nuclear fields on the spin states in the two dots. We numerically calculate the current flow due to the induced spin flips via electron spin resonance and we study the detector efficiency for a range of parameters. The experimental data are compared with the model and we find a reasonable agreement. 
0704.01629	Donor type semiconductor at low temperature as maser active medium	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Yuri Kornyushin	 Abstract: In some semiconductors donor impurity atoms can attract additional electrons, forming negative donor impurity ions. Thus we have 3 energy levels for electrons: zero energy levels at the bottom of the conductivity band, negative energy levels of the bounded electrons of the negative donor impurity ions, and deeper negative energy levels of the outer electrons of the neutral donor impurity atoms. So the donor impurity atoms could serve as active centres for a maser. The maximum achievable relative population is 0.5. Typical wavelength of the generated oscillation is 0.14 mm; three level scheme could be realized at rather low temperatures, considerably lower than 6 K. 
0704.01630	Exciting the Magnetosphere of the Magnetar CXOU J164710.2-455216 in  Westerlund 1	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. P. Muno, B. M. Gaensler, J. S. Clark, R. de Grijs, D. Pooley, I. R. Stevens, S. F. Portegies Zwart	 Abstract: We describe XMM-Newton observations taken 4.3 days prior to and 1.5 days subsequent to two remarkable events that were detected with Swift on 2006 September 21 from the candidate magnetar CXOU J164710.2-455216: (1) a 20 ms burst with an energy of 1e37 erg (15-150 keV), and (2) a rapid spin-down (glitch) with a fractionap period change of 1e-4. We find that the luminosity of the pulsar increased by a factor of 100 in the interval between observations, from 1e33 to 1e35 erg/s (0.5-8.0 keV), and that its spectrum hardened. The pulsed count rate increased by a factor of 10 (0.5-8.0 keV), but the fractional rms amplitude of the pulses decreased from 65 to 11 per cent, and their profile changed from being single-peaked to exhibiting three peaks. Similar changes have been observed from other magnetars in response to outbursts, such as that of 1E 2259+586 in 2002 June. We suggest that a plastic deformation of the neutron star's crust induced a very slight twist in the external magnetic field, which in turn generated currents in the magnetosphere that were the direct cause of the X-ray outburst. 
0704.01631	Further Evidence that the Redshifts of AGN Galaxies May Contain  Intrinsic Components	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. B. Bell	 Abstract: In the decreasing intrinsic redshift (DIR) model galaxies are assumed to be born as compact objects that have been ejected with large intrinsic redshift components, z_(i), out of the nuclei of mature AGN galaxies. As young AGN (quasars) they are initially several magnitudes sub-luminous to mature galaxies but their luminosity gradually increases over 10^8 yrs, as z_(i) decreases and they evolve into mature AGN (Seyferts and radio galaxies). Evidence presented here that low- and intermediate-redshift AGN are unquestionably sub-luminous to radio galaxies is then strong support for this model and makes it likely that the high-redshift AGN (quasars) are also sub-luminous, having simply been pushed above the radio galaxies on a logz-m_(v) plot by the presence of a large intrinsic component in their redshifts. An increase in luminosity below z = 0.06 is also seen. It is associated in the DIR model with an increase in luminosity as the sources mature but, if real, is difficult to interpret in the cosmological redshift (CR) model since at this low redshift it is unlikely to be associated with a higher star formation rate or an increase in the material used to build galaxies. Whether it might be possible in the CR model to explain these results by selection effects is also examined. 
0704.01632	Semiclassical scattering amplitude at the maximum point of the potential	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Ivana Alexandrova, Jean-Francois Bony, Thierry Ramond	 Abstract: We compute the scattering amplitude for Schr\"odinger operators at a critical energy level, corresponding to the maximum point of the potential. We follow the wrok of Robert and Tamura, '89, using Isozaki and Kitada's representation formula for the scattering amplitude, together with results from Bony, Fujiie, Ramond and Zerzeri '06 in order to analyze the contribution of trapped trajectories. 
0704.01633	Hilbert Spaces with Generic Predicates	Logic (math.LO)	Authors:Alexander Berenstein, Tapani Hyttinen, Andrés Villaveces	 Abstract: We study the model theory of expansions of Hilbert spaces by generic predicates. We first prove the existence of model companions for generic expansions of Hilbert spaces in the form first of a distance function to a random substructure, then a distance to a random subset. The theory obtained with the random substructure is {\omega}-stable, while the one obtained with the distance to a random subset is $TP_2$ and $NSOP_1$. That example is the first continuous structure in that class. 
0704.01634	Riggings of locally compact abelian groups	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:M. Gadella, F. Gomez, S. Wickramasekara	 Abstract: We obtain a set of generalized eigenvectors that provides a generalized spectral decomposition for a given unitary representation of a commutative, locally compact topological group. These generalized eigenvectors are functionals belonging to the dual space of a rigging on the space of square integrable functions on the character group. These riggings are obtained through suitable spectral measure spaces. 
0704.01635	Weak Amenability of Hyperbolic Groups	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Narutaka Ozawa	 Abstract: We prove that hyperbolic groups are weakly amenable. This partially extends the result of Cowling and Haagerup showing that lattices in simple Lie groups of real rank one are weakly amenable. We take a combinatorial approach in the spirit of Haagerup and prove that for the word length metric d on a hyperbolic group, the Schur multipliers associated with r^d have uniformly bounded norms for 0<r<1. We then combine this with a Bozejko-Picardello type inequality to obtain weak amenability. 
0704.01636	Light Curves of Dwarf Plutonian Planets and other Large Kuiper Belt  Objects: Their Rotations, Phase Functions and Absolute Magnitudes	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Scott S. Sheppard	 Abstract: (Abridged) I report new light curves and determine the rotations and phase functions of several large Kuiper Belt objects, including the dwarf planet Eris (2003 UB313). (120348) 2004 TY364 shows a light curve which if double-peaked has a period of 11.70+-0.01 hours and peak-to-peak amplitude of 0.22+-0.02 magnitudes. (84922) 2003 VS2 has a well defined double-peaked light curve of 7.41+-0.02 hours with a 0.21+-0.02 magnitude range. (126154) 2001 YH140 shows variability of 0.21+-0.04 magnitudes with a possible 13.25+-0.2 hour single-peaked period. The seven new KBOs in the sample which show no discernible variations within the uncertainties on short rotational time scales are 2001 UQ18, (55565) 2002 AW197, (119979) 2002 WC19, (120132) 2003 FY128, (136108) Eris 2003 UB313, (90482) Orcus 2004 DW, and (90568) 2004 GV9. The three medium to large sized Kuiper Belt objects 2004 TY364, Orcus and 2004 GV9 show fairly steep linear phase curves (~0.18 to 0.26 mags per degree) between phase angles of 0.1 and 1.5 degrees. The extremely large dwarf planet Eris (2003 UB313) shows a shallower phase curve (0.09+-0.03 mags per degree) which is more similar to the other known dwarf planet Pluto. It appears the surface properties of the largest dwarf planets in the Kuiper Belt maybe different than the smaller Kuiper Belt objects. This may have to do with the larger objects ability to hold more volatile ices as well as sustain atmospheres. The absolute magnitudes obtained using the measured phase slopes are a few tenths of magnitudes different from those given by the MPC. 
0704.01637	Fischler-Susskind holographic cosmology revisited	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Pablo Diaz, M. A. Per, Antonio Segui	 Abstract: When Fischler and Susskind proposed a holographic prescription based on the Particle Horizon, they found that spatially closed cosmological models do not verify it due to the apparently unavoidable recontraction of the Particle Horizon area. In this article, after a short review of their original work, we expose graphically and analytically that spatially closed cosmological models can avoid this problem if they expand fast enough. It has been also shown that the Holographic Principle is saturated for a codimension one brane dominated Universe. The Fischler-Susskind prescription is used to obtain the maximum number of degrees of freedom per Planck volume at the Planck era compatible with the Holographic Principle. 
0704.01638	Accelerated expansion of the Universe filled up with the scalar  gravitons	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Yu. F. Pirogov	 Abstract: The concept of the scalar graviton as the source of the dark matter and dark energy of the gravitaional origin is applied to study the evolution of the isotropic homogeneous Universe. A realistic self-consistent solution to the modified pure gravity equations, which correctly describes the accelerated expansion of the spatially flat Universe, is found and investigated. It is argued that the scenario with the scalar gravitons filling up the Universe may emulate the LCDM model, reducing thus the true dark matter to an artefact. 
0704.01639	Parity doubling in particle physics	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:S. S. Afonin	 Abstract: Parity doubling in excited hadrons is reviewed. Parity degeneracy in hadrons was first experimentally observed 40 years ago. Recently new experimental data on light mesons caused much excitement and renewed interest to the phenomenon, which still remains to be enigmatic. The present retrospective review is an attempt to trace the history of parity doubling phenomenon, thus providing a kind of introduction to the subject. We begin with early approaches of 1960s (Regge theory and dynamical symmetries) and end up with the latest trends (manifestations of broader degeneracies and AdS/QCD). We show the evolution of various ideas about parity doubling. The experimental evidence for this phenomenon is scrutinized in the non-strange sector. Some experiments of 1960s devoted to the search for missing non-strange bosons are re-examined and it is argued that results of these experiments are encouraging from the modern perspective. 
0704.01640	Bergman kernels and equilibrium measures for ample line bundles	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Robert Berman	 Abstract: Let L be an ample holomorphic line bundle over a compact complex Hermitian manifold X. Any fixed smooth Hermitian metric on L induces a Hilbert space structure on the space of global holomorphic sections with values in the k:th tensor power of L. In this paper various convergence results are obtained for the corresponding Bergman kernels. The convergence is studied in the large k limit and is expressed in terms of the equilibrium metric associated to the fixed metric, as well as in terms of the Monge-Ampere measure of the fixed metric itself on a certain support set. It is also shown that the equilibrium metric has Lipschitz continuous first derivatives. These results can be seen as generalizations of well-known results concerning the case when the curvature of the fixed metric is positive (the corresponding equilibrium metric is then simply the fixed metric itself). 
0704.01641	U Geminorum: a test case for orbital parameters determination	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. Echevarria (1), E. de la Fuente (2), R. Costero (1) ((1) IA UNAM, Mexico, (2) Departamento de Fisica, CUCEI, Universidad de Guadalajara, Mexico)	 Abstract: High-resolution spectroscopy of U Gem was obtained during quiescence. We did not find a hot spot or gas stream around the outer boundaries of the accretion disk. Instead, we detected a strong narrow emission near the location of the secondary star. We measured the radial velocity curve from the wings of the double-peaked H$\alpha$ emission line, and obtained a semi-amplitude value that is in excellent agreement with the obtained from observations in the ultraviolet spectral region by Sion et al. (1998). We present also a new method to obtain K_2, which enhances the detection of absorption or emission features arising in the late-type companion. Our results are compared with published values derived from the near-infrared NaI line doublet. From a comparison of the TiO band with those of late type M stars, we find that a best fit is obtained for a M6V star, contributing 5 percent of the total light at that spectral region. Assuming that the radial velocity semi-amplitudes reflect accurately the motion of the binary components, then from our results: K_em = 107+/-2 km/s; K_abs = 310+/-5 km/s, and using the inclination angle given by Zhang & Robinson(1987); i = 69.7+/-0.7, the system parameters become: M_WD = 1.20+/-0.05 M_sun,; M_RD = 0.42+/-0.04 M_sun; and a = 1.55+/- 0.02 R_sun. Based on the separation of the double emission peaks, we calculate an outer disk radius of R_out/a ~0.61, close to the distance of the inner Lagrangian point L_1/a~0.63. Therefore we suggest that, at the time of observations, the accretion disk was filling the Roche-Lobe of the primary, and that the matter leaving the L_1 point was colliding with the disc directly, producing the hot spot at this location. 
0704.01642	Collective excitations of hard-core Bosons at half filling on square and  triangular lattices: Development of roton minima and collapse of roton gap	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Tyler Bryant, Rajiv R. P. Singh	 Abstract: We study ground state properties and excitation spectra for hard-core Bosons on square and triangular lattices, at half filling, using series expansion methods. Nearest-neighbor repulsion between the Bosons leads to the development of short-range density order at the antiferromagnetic wavevector, and simultaneously a roton minima in the density excitation spectra. On the square-lattice, the model maps on to the well studied XXZ model, and the roton gap collapses to zero precisely at the Heisenberg symmetry point, leading to the well known spectra for the Heisenberg antiferromagnet. On the triangular-lattice, the collapse of the roton gap signals the onset of the supersolid phase. Our results suggest that the transition from the superfluid to the supersolid phase maybe weakly first order. We also find several features in the density of states, including two-peaks and a sharp discontinuity, which maybe observable in experimental realization of such systems. 
0704.01643	The LIL for $U$-statistics in Hilbert spaces	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Radosław Adamczak, Rafał Latała	 Abstract: We give necessary and sufficient conditions for the (bounded) law of the iterated logarithm for $U$-statistics in Hilbert spaces. As a tool we also develop moment and tail estimates for canonical Hilbert-space valued $U$-statistics of arbitrary order, which are of independent interest. 
0704.01644	Circulating Current States in Bilayer Fermionic and Bosonic Systems	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Alexei Kolezhuk	 Abstract: It is shown that fermionic polar molecules or atoms in a bilayer optical lattice can undergo the transition to a state with circulating currents, which spontaneously breaks the time reversal symmetry. Estimates of relevant temperature scales are given and experimental signatures of the circulating current phase are identified. Related phenomena in bosonic and spin systems with ring exchange are discussed. 
0704.01645	Non-Relativistic Propagators via Schwinger's Method	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:A. Aragao, H. Boschi-Filho, C. Farina, F.A. Barone	 Abstract: In order to popularize the so called Schwinger's method we reconsider the Feynman propagator of two non-relativistic systems: a charged particle in a uniform magnetic field and a charged harmonic oscillator in a uniform magnetic field. Instead of solving the Heisenberg equations for the position and the canonical momentum operators, ${\bf R}$ and ${\bf P}$, we apply this method by solving the Heisenberg equations for the gauge invariant operators ${\bf R}$ and $\mathversion{bold}${\pi}$ = {\bf P}-e{\bf A}$, the latter being the mechanical momentum operator. In our procedure we avoid fixing the gauge from the beginning and the result thus obtained shows explicitly the gauge dependence of the Feynman propagator. 
0704.01646	A linear RFQ ion trap for the Enriched Xenon Observatory	Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)	Authors:B. Flatt, M. Green, J. Wodin, R. DeVoe, P. Fierlinger, G. Gratta, F. LePort, M. Montero Diez, R. Neilson, K. OSullivan, A. Pocar, S. Waldman, E. Baussan, M. Breidenbach, R. Conley, W. Fairbank Jr., J. Farine, C. Hall, K. Hall, D. Hallman, C. Hargrove, M. Hauger, J. Hodgson, F. Juget, D.S. Leonard, D. Mackay, Y. Martin, B. Mong, A. Odian, L. Ounalli, A. Piepke, C.Y. Prescott, P.C. Rowson, K. Skarpass, D. Schenker, D. Sinclair, V. Strickland, C. Virtue, J.-L. Vuilleuimier, J.-M. Vuilleuimier, K. Wamba, P. Weber	 Abstract: The design, construction, and performance of a linear radio-frequency ion trap (RFQ) intended for use in the Enriched Xenon Observatory (EXO) are described. EXO aims to detect the neutrinoless double-beta decay of $^{136}$Xe to $^{136}$Ba. To suppress possible backgrounds EXO will complement the measurement of decay energy and, to some extent, topology of candidate events in a Xe filled detector with the identification of the daughter nucleus ($^{136}$Ba). The ion trap described here is capable of accepting, cooling, and confining individual Ba ions extracted from the site of the candidate double-beta decay event. A single trapped ion can then be identified, with a large signal-to-noise ratio, via laser spectroscopy. 
0704.01647	How much entropy is produced in strongly coupled Quark-Gluon Plasma  (sQGP) by dissipative effects?	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Michael Lublinsky, Edward Shuryak	 Abstract: We argue that estimates of dissipative effects based on the first-order hydrodynamics with shear viscosity are potentially misleading because higher order terms in the gradient expansion of the dissipative part of the stress tensor tend to reduce them. Using recently obtained sound dispersion relation in thermal $\cal N$=4 supersymmetric plasma, we calculate the $resummed$ effect of these high order terms for Bjorken expansion appropriate to RHIC/LHC collisions. A reduction of entropy production is found to be substantial, up to an order of magnitude. 
0704.01648	Spectral Analysis of the Chandra Comet Survey	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D. Bodewits, D.J. Christian, M. Torney, M. Dryer, C.M. Lisse, K. Dennerl, T.H. Zurbuchen, S.J. Wolk, A.G.G.M. Tielens, R. Hoekstra	 Abstract: We present results of the analysis of cometary X-ray spectra with an extended version of our charge exchange emission model (Bodewits et al. 2006). We have applied this model to the sample of 8 comets thus far observed with the Chandra X-ray observatory and ACIS spectrometer in the 300-1000 eV range. The surveyed comets are C/1999 S4 (LINEAR), C/1999 T1 (McNaught-Hartley), C/2000 WM1 (LINEAR), 153P/2002 (Ikeya-Zhang), 2P/2003 (Encke), C/2001 Q4 (NEAT), 9P/2005 (Tempel 1) and 73P/2006-B (Schwassmann-Wachmann 3) and the observations include a broad variety of comets, solar wind environments and observational conditions. The interaction model is based on state selective, velocity dependent charge exchange cross sections and is used to explore how cometary X-ray emission depend on cometary, observational and solar wind characteristics. It is further demonstrated that cometary X-ray spectra mainly reflect the state of the local solar wind. The current sample of Chandra observations was fit using the constrains of the charge exchange model, and relative solar wind abundances were derived from the X-ray spectra. Our analysis showed that spectral differences can be ascribed to different solar wind states, as such identifying comets interacting with (I) fast, cold wind, (II), slow, warm wind and (III) disturbed, fast, hot winds associated with interplanetary coronal mass ejections. We furthermore predict the existence of a fourth spectral class, associated with the cool, fast high latitude wind. 
0704.01649	Hamiltonian formalism in a problem of 3-th waves hierarchy	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:A.N.Leznov	 Abstract: By the method of discrete transformation equations of 3-th wave hierarchy are constructed. We present in explicit form two Poisson structures, which allow to construct Hamiltonian operator consequent application of which leads to all equations of this hierarchy. For calculations it will be necessary results of previous paper \cite{1}, which for convenience of the reader we present in corresponding place of the text. The obtained formulae are checked by independent calculations. 
0704.01650	Correlations, fluctuations and stability of a finite-size network of  coupled oscillators	Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO)	Authors:Michael A. Buice, Carson C. Chow	 Abstract: The incoherent state of the Kuramoto model of coupled oscillators exhibits marginal modes in mean field theory. We demonstrate that corrections due to finite size effects render these modes stable in the subcritical case, i.e. when the population is not synchronous. This demonstration is facilitated by the construction of a non-equilibrium statistical field theoretic formulation of a generic model of coupled oscillators. This theory is consistent with previous results. In the all-to-all case, the fluctuations in this theory are due completely to finite size corrections, which can be calculated in an expansion in 1/N, where N is the number of oscillators. The N -> infinity limit of this theory is what is traditionally called mean field theory for the Kuramoto model. 
0704.01651	Route to Lambda in conformally coupled phantom cosmology	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Orest Hrycyna, Marek Szydlowski	 Abstract: In this letter we investigate acceleration in the flat cosmological model with a conformally coupled phantom field and we show that acceleration is its generic feature. We reduce the dynamics of the model to a 3-dimensional dynamical system and analyze it on a invariant 2-dimensional submanifold. Then the concordance FRW model with the cosmological constant $\Lambda$ is a global attractor situated on a 2-dimensional invariant space. We also study the behaviour near this attractor, which can be approximated by the dynamics of the linearized part of the system. We demonstrate that trajectories of the conformally coupled phantom scalar field with a simple quadratic potential crosses the cosmological constant barrier infinitely many times in the phase space. The universal behaviour of the scalar field and its potential is also calculated. We conclude that the phantom scalar field conformally coupled to gravity gives a natural dynamical mechanism of concentration of the equation of state coefficient around the magical value $w_{\text{eff}}=-1$. We demonstrate route to Lambda through the infinite times crossing the $w_{\text{eff}}=-1$ phantom divide. 
0704.01652	Interaction of Supernova Ejecta with Nearby Protoplanetary Disks	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:N. Ouellette, S. J. Desch, J. J. Hester	 Abstract: The early Solar System contained short-lived radionuclides such as 60Fe (t1/2 = 1.5 Myr) whose most likely source was a nearby supernova. Previous models of Solar System formation considered a supernova shock that triggered the collapse of the Sun's nascent molecular cloud. We advocate an alternative hypothesis, that the Solar System's protoplanetary disk had already formed when a very close (< 1 pc) supernova injected radioactive material directly into the disk. We conduct the first numerical simulations designed to answer two questions related to this hypothesis: will the disk be destroyed by such a close supernova; and will any of the ejecta be mixed into the disk? Our simulations demonstrate that the disk does not absorb enough momentum from the shock to escape the protostar to which it is bound. Only low amounts (< 1%) of mass loss occur, due to stripping by Kelvin-Helmholtz instabilities across the top of the disk, which also mix into the disk about 1% of the intercepted ejecta. These low efficiencies of destruction and injectation are due to the fact that the high disk pressures prevent the ejecta from penetrating far into the disk before stalling. Injection of gas-phase ejecta is too inefficient to be consistent with the abundances of radionuclides inferred from meteorites. On the other hand, the radionuclides found in meteorites would have condensed into dust grains in the supernova ejecta, and we argue that such grains will be injected directly into the disk with nearly 100% efficiency. The meteoritic abundances of the short-lived radionuclides such as 60Fe therefore are consistent with injection of grains condensed from the ejecta of a nearby (< 1 pc) supernova, into an already-formed protoplanetary disk. 
0704.01653	Scaling cosmologies, geodesic motion and pseudo-susy	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Wissam Chemissany, André ploegh, Thomas Van Riet	 Abstract: One-parameter solutions in supergravity carried by scalars and a metric trace out curves on the scalar manifold. In ungauged supergravity these curves describe a geodesic motion. It is known that a geodesic motion sometimes occurs in the presence of a scalar potential and for time-dependent solutions this can happen for scaling cosmologies. This note contains a further study of such solutions in the context of pseudo-supersymmetry for multi-field systems whose first-order equations we derive using a Bogomol'nyi-like method. In particular we show that scaling solutions that are pseudo-BPS must describe geodesic curves. Furthermore, we clarify how to solve the geodesic equations of motion when the scalar manifold is a maximally non-compact coset such as occurs in maximal supergravity. This relies upon a parametrization of the coset in the Borel gauge. We then illustrate this with the cosmological solutions of higher-dimensional gravity compactified on a $n$-torus. 
0704.01654	The Peculiar Velocities of Local Type Ia Supernovae and their Impact on  Cosmology	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:James D. Neill (1), Michael J. Hudson (2), Alex Conley (3) ((1) California Institute of Technology, (2) University of Waterloo, (3) University of Toronto)	 Abstract: We quantify the effect of supernova Type Ia peculiar velocities on the derivation of cosmological parameters. The published distant and local Ia SNe used for the Supernova Legacy Survey first-year cosmology report form the sample for this study. While previous work has assumed that the local SNe are at rest in the CMB frame (the No Flow assumption), we test this assumption by applying peculiar velocity corrections to the local SNe using three different flow models. The models are based on the IRAS PSCz galaxy redshift survey, have varying beta = Omega_m^0.6/b, and reproduce the Local Group motion in the CMB frame. These datasets are then fit for w, Omega_m, and Omega_Lambda using flatness or LambdaCDM and a BAO prior. The chi^2 statistic is used to examine the effect of the velocity corrections on the quality of the fits. The most favored model is the beta=0.5 model, which produces a fit significantly better than the No Flow assumption, consistent with previous peculiar velocity studies. By comparing the No Flow assumption with the favored models we derive the largest potential systematic error in w caused by ignoring peculiar velocities to be Delta w = +0.04. For Omega_Lambda, the potential error is Delta Omega_Lambda = -0.04 and for Omega_m, the potential error is Delta Omega_m < +0.01. The favored flow model (beta=0.5) produces the following cosmological parameters: w = -1.08 (+0.09,-0.08), Omega_m = 0.27 (+0.02,-0.02) assuming a flat cosmology, and Omega_Lambda = 0.80 (+0.08,-0.07) and Omega_m = 0.27 (+0.02,-0.02) for a w = -1 (LambdaCDM) cosmology. 
0704.01655	Creation of Quark-gluon Plasma in Celestial Laboratories	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:R. K. Thakur	 Abstract: It is shown that a gravitationally collapsing black hole acts as an ultrahigh energy particle accelerator that can accelerate particles to energies inconceivable in any terrestrial particle accelerator, and that when the energy E of the particles comprising the matter in the black hole is $ \sim 10^{2} $ GeV or more,or equivalently the temperature T is $ \sim 10^{15}$ K or more, the entire matter in the black hole will be in the form of quark-gluon plasma permeated by leptons. 
0704.01656	Temperature-driven transition from the Wigner Crystal to the  Bond-Charge-Density Wave in the Quasi-One-Dimensional Quarter-Filled band	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:R.T. Clay, R.P. Hardikar, S. Mazumdar	 Abstract: It is known that within the interacting electron model Hamiltonian for the one-dimensional 1/4-filled band, the singlet ground state is a Wigner crystal only if the nearest neighbor electron-electron repulsion is larger than a critical value. We show that this critical nearest neighbor Coulomb interaction is different for each spin subspace, with the critical value decreasing with increasing spin. As a consequence, with the lowering of temperature, there can occur a transition from a Wigner crystal charge-ordered state to a spin-Peierls state that is a Bond-Charge-Density Wave with charge occupancies different from the Wigner crystal. This transition is possible because spin excitations from the spin-Peierls state in the 1/4-filled band are necessarily accompanied by changes in site charge densities. We apply our theory to the 1/4-filled band quasi-one-dimensional organic charge-transfer solids in general and to 2:1 tetramethyltetrathiafulvalene (TMTTF) and tetramethyltetraselenafulvalene (TMTSF) cationic salts in particular. We believe that many recent experiments strongly indicate the Wigner crystal to Bond-Charge-Density Wave transition in several members of the TMTTF family. We explain the occurrence of two different antiferromagnetic phases but a single spin-Peierls state in the generic phase diagram for the 2:1 cationic solids. The antiferromagnetic phases can have either the Wigner crystal or the Bond-Charge-Spin-Density Wave charge occupancies. The spin-Peierls state is always a Bond-Charge-Density Wave. 
0704.01657	Bubbling Surface Operators And S-Duality	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Jaume Gomis, Shunji Matsuura	 Abstract: We construct smooth asymptotically AdS_5xS^5 solutions of Type IIB supergravity corresponding to all the half-BPS surface operators in N=4 SYM. All the parameters labeling a half-BPS surface operator are identified in the corresponding bubbling geometry. We use the supergravity description of surface operators to study the action of the SL(2,Z) duality group of N=4 SYM on the parameters of the surface operator, and find that it coincides with the recent proposal by Gukov and Witten in the framework of the gauge theory approach to the geometrical Langlands with ramification. We also show that whenever a bubbling geometry becomes singular that the path integral description of the corresponding surface operator also becomes singular. 
0704.01658	Resolving Cosmic Gamma Ray Anomalies with Dark Matter Decaying Now	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jose A. R. Cembranos, Jonathan L. Feng, Louis E. Strigari	 Abstract: Dark matter particles need not be completely stable, and in fact they may be decaying now. We consider this possibility in the frameworks of universal extra dimensions and supersymmetry with very late decays of WIMPs to Kaluza-Klein gravitons and gravitinos. The diffuse photon background is a sensitive probe, even for lifetimes far greater than the age of the Universe. Remarkably, both the energy spectrum and flux of the observed MeV gamma ray excess may be naturally explained by decaying dark matter with MeV mass splittings. Future observations of continuum and line photon fluxes will test this explanation and may provide novel constraints on cosmological parameters. 
0704.01659	Neutrino-cooled accretion and GRB variability	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Dimitrios Giannios (Max Planck Institute for Astrophysics)	 Abstract: For accretion rates Mdot~0.1 Msun/s to a few solar mass black hole the inner part of the disk is expected to make a transition from advection dominance to neutrino cooling. This transition is characterized by sharp changes of the disk properties. I argue here that during this transition, a modest increase of the accretion rate leads to powerful enhancement of the Poynting luminosity of the GRB flow and decrease of its baryon loading. These changes of the characteristics of the GRB flow translate into changing gamma-ray spectra from the photosphere of the flow. The photospheric interpretation of the GRB emission explains the observed narrowing of GRB pulses with increasing photon energy and the luminosity-spectral peak relation within and among bursts. 
0704.01660	The VVDS type-1 AGN sample: The faint end of the luminosity function	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Bongiorno, G. Zamorani, I. Gavignaud, B. Marano, S. Paltani, G. Mathez, J.P. Picat, M. Cirasuolo, F. Lamareille, D. Bottini, B. Garilli, V. Le Brun, O. Le Fevre, D. Maccagni, R. Scaramella, M. Scodeggio, L. Tresse, G. Vettolani, A. Zanichelli, C. Adami, S. Arnouts, S. Bardelli, M. Bolzonella, A. Cappi, S. Charlot, P. Ciliegi, T. Contini, S. Foucaud, P. Franzetti, L. Guzzo, O. Ilbert, A. Iovino, H.J. McCracken, C. Marinon, A. Mazure, B. Meneux, R. Merighi, R. Pello', A. Pollo, L. Pozzetti, M. Radovich, E. Zucca, E. Hatziminaoglou, M. Polletta, M. Bondi, J. Brinchmann, O. Cucciati, S. de la Torre, L. Gregorini, Y. Mellier, P. Merluzzi, S. Temporin, D. Vergani, C.J. Walcher	 Abstract: In a previous paper (Gavignaud et al. 2006), we presented the type-1 Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) sample obtained from the first epoch data of the VIMOS-VLT Deep Survey (VVDS). The sample consists of 130 faint, broad-line AGN with redshift up to z=5 and 17.5< I <24.0, selected on the basis of their spectra. In this paper we present the measurement of the Optical Luminosity Function up to z=3.6 derived from this sample, we compare our results with previous results from brighter samples both at low and at high redshift. Our data, more than one magnitude fainter than previous optical surveys, allow us to constrain the faint part of the luminosity function up to high redshift. By combining our faint VVDS sample with the large sample of bright AGN extracted from the SDSS DR3 (Richards et al., 2006b) and testing a number of different evolutionary models, we find that the model which better represents the combined luminosity functions, over a wide range of redshift and luminosity, is a luminosity dependent density evolution (LDDE) model, similar to those derived from the major X-surveys. Such a parameterization allows the redshift of the AGN space density peak to change as a function of luminosity and explains the excess of faint AGN that we find at 1.0< z <1.5. On the basis of this model we find, for the first time from the analysis of optically selected samples, that the peak of the AGN space density shifts significantly towards lower redshift going to lower luminosity objects. This result, already found in a number of X-ray selected samples of AGN, is consistent with a scenario of "AGN cosmic downsizing", in which the density of more luminous AGN, possibly associated to more massive black holes, peaks earlier in the history of the Universe, than that of low luminosity ones. 
0704.01661	Can a Black Hole Collapse to a Space-time Singularity?	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:R. K. Thakur	 Abstract: A critique of the singularity theorems of Penrose, Hawking, and Geroch is given. It is pointed out that a gravitationally collapsing black hole acts as an ultrahigh energy particle accelerator that can accelerate particles to energies inconceivable in any terrestrial particle accelerator, and that when the energy $E$ of the particles comprising matter in a black hole is $\sim 10^{2} GeV$ or more, or equivalently, the temperature $T$ is $\sim 10^{15} K$ or more, the entire matter in the black hole is converted into quark-gluon plasma permeated by leptons. As quarks and leptons are fermions, it is emphasized that the collapse of a black-hole to a space-time singularity is inhibited by Pauli's exclusion principle. It is also suggested that ultimately a black hole may end up either as a stable quark star, or as a pulsating quark star which may be a source of gravitational radiation, or it may simply explode with a mini bang of a sort. 
0704.01662	Right-Handed Quark Mixings in Minimal Left-Right Symmetric Model with  General CP Violation	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Yue Zhang, Haipeng An, Xiangdong Ji, R. N. Mohapatra	 Abstract: We present a systematic approach to solve analytically for the right-handed quark mixings in the minimal left-right symmetric model which generally has both explicit and spontaneous CP violations. The leading-order result has the same hierarchical structure as the left-handed CKM mixing, but with additional CP phases originating from a spontaneous CP-violating phase in the Higgs vev. We explore the phenomenology entailed by the new right-handed mixing matrix, particularly the bounds on the mass of $W_R$ and the CP phase of the Higgs vev. 
0704.01663	Dynamics of single polymers under extreme confinement	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Armin Rahmani, Claudio Castelnovo, Jeremy Schmit, Claudio Chamon	 Abstract: We study the dynamics of a single chain polymer confined to a two dimensional cell. We introduce a kinetically constrained lattice gas model that preserves the connectivity of the chain, and we use this kinetically constrained model to study the dynamics of the polymer at varying densities through Monte Carlo simulations. Even at densities close to the fully-packed configuration, we find that the monomers comprising the chain manage to diffuse around the box with a root mean square displacement of the order of the box dimensions over time scales for which the overall geometry of the polymer is, nevertheless, largely preserved. To capture this shape persistence, we define the local tangent field and study the two-time tangent-tangent correlation function, which exhibits a glass-like behavior. In both closed and open chains, we observe reptational motion and reshaping through local fingering events which entail global monomer displacement. 
0704.01664	Diffuse Optical Light in Galaxy Clusters II: Correlations with Cluster  Properties	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. E. Krick, R. A. Bernstein	 Abstract: We have measured the flux, profile, color, and substructure in the diffuse intracluster light (ICL) in a sample of ten galaxy clusters with a range of mass, morphology, redshift, and density. Deep, wide-field observations for this project were made in two bands at the one meter Swope and 2.5 meter du Pont telescope at Las Campanas Observatory. Careful attention in reduction and analysis was paid to the illumination correction, background subtraction, point spread function determination, and galaxy subtraction. ICL flux is detected in both bands in all ten clusters ranging from 7.6 x 10^{10} to 7.0 x 10^{11} h^{-1} solar luminosities in r and 1.4 x 10^{10} to 1.2 x 10^{11} h^{-1} solar luminosities in the B-band. These fluxes account for 6 to 22% of the total cluster light within one quarter of the virial radius in r and 4 to 21% in the B-band. Average ICL B-r colors range from 1.5 to 2.8 mags when k and evolution corrected to the present epoch. In several clusters we also detect ICL in group environments near the cluster center and up to ~1 h^{-1} Mpc distant from the cluster center. Our sample, having been selected from the Abell sample, is incomplete in that it does not include high redshift clusters with low density, low flux, or low mass, and it does not include low redshift clusters with high flux, mass, or density. This bias makes it difficult to interpret correlations between ICL flux and cluster properties. Despite this selection bias, we do find that the presence of a cD galaxy corresponds to both centrally concentrated galaxy profiles and centrally concentrated ICL profiles. This is consistent with ICL either forming from galaxy interactions at the center, or forming at earlier times in groups and later combining in the center. 
0704.01665	Approach to Physical Reality: a note on Poincare Group and the  philosophy of Nagarjuna	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:David Vernette, Punam Tandan, Michele Caponigro	 Abstract: We argue about a possible scenario of physical reality based on the parallelism between Poincare group and the sunyata philosophy of Nagarjuna. The notion of "relational" is the common denominator of two views. We have approached the relational concept in third-person perspective (ontic level). It is possible to deduce different physical consequence and interpretation through first-person perspective approach. This relational interpretation leave open the questions: i)we must abandon the idea for a physical system the possibility to extract completeness information? ii)we must abandon the idea to infer a possible structure of physical reality? 
0704.01666	Ultraviolet Observations of Supernovae	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nino Panagia	 Abstract: The motivations to make ultraviolet (UV) studies of supernovae (SNe) are reviewed and discussed in the light of the results obtained so far by means of IUE and HST observations. It appears that UV studies of SNe can, and do lead to fundamental results not only for our understanding of the SN phenomenon, such as the kinematics and the metallicity of the ejecta, but also for exciting new findings in Cosmology, such as the tantalizing evidence for "dark energy" that seems to pervade the Universe and to dominate its energetics. The need for additional and more detailed UV observations is also considered and discussed. 
0704.01667	Stochastic fluctuations in metabolic pathways	Molecular Networks (q-bio.MN)	Authors:Erel Levine, Terence Hwa	 Abstract: Fluctuations in the abundance of molecules in the living cell may affect its growth and well being. For regulatory molecules (e.g., signaling proteins or transcription factors), fluctuations in their expression can affect the levels of downstream targets in a network. Here, we develop an analytic framework to investigate the phenomenon of noise correlation in molecular networks. Specifically, we focus on the metabolic network, which is highly inter-linked, and noise properties may constrain its structure and function. Motivated by the analogy between the dynamics of a linear metabolic pathway and that of the exactly soluable linear queueing network or, alternatively, a mass transfer system, we derive a plethora of results concerning fluctuations in the abundance of intermediate metabolites in various common motifs of the metabolic network. For all but one case examined, we find the steady-state fluctuation in different nodes of the pathways to be effectively uncorrelated. Consequently, fluctuations in enzyme levels only affect local properties and do not propagate elsewhere into metabolic networks, and intermediate metabolites can be freely shared by different reactions. Our approach may be applicable to study metabolic networks with more complex topologies, or protein signaling networks which are governed by similar biochemical reactions. Possible implications for bioinformatic analysis of metabolimic data are discussed. 
0704.01668	A new search for planet transits in NGC 6791	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Montalto (1), G. Piotto (1), S. Desidera (2), F. De Marchi (1), H. Bruntt (3,4), P. B. Stetson (5), A. Arellano Ferro (6), Y. Momany (1,2), R. G. Gratton (2), E. Poretti (7), A. Aparicio (8), M. Barbieri (2,9), R. U. Claudi (2), G. Grundahl (3), A. Rosenberg (8) ((1) Dipartimento di Astronomia, Università di Padova, Italy, (2) INAF - Osservatorio Astronomico di Padova, Italy, (3) Department of Physics and Astronomy, Denmark, (4) University of Sydney, School of Physics, Australia, (5) Herzberg Institute of Astrophysics, Canada, (6) Instituto de Astronomía, Universidad Nacional Autonóma de México, (7) INAF - Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera, Italy, (8) Instituto de Astrofisica de Canarias, Canary Islands, Spain, (9) Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Padova, Italy)	 Abstract: Context. Searching for planets in open clusters allows us to study the effects of dynamical environment on planet formation and evolution. Aims. Considering the strong dependence of planet frequency on stellar metallicity, we studied the metal rich old open cluster NGC 6791 and searched for close-in planets using the transit technique. Methods. A ten-night observational campaign was performed using the Canada-France-Hawaii Telescope (3.6m), the San Pedro M\'artir telescope (2.1m), and the Loiano telescope (1.5m). To increase the transit detection probability we also made use of the Bruntt et al. (2003) eight-nights observational campaign. Adequate photometric precision for the detection of planetary transits was achieved. Results. Should the frequency and properties of close-in planets in NGC 6791 be similar to those orbiting field stars of similar metallicity, then detailed simulations foresee the presence of 2-3 transiting planets. Instead, we do not confirm the transit candidates proposed by Bruntt et al. (2003). The probability that the null detection is simply due to chance coincidence is estimated to be 3%-10%, depending on the metallicity assumed for the cluster. Conclusions. Possible explanations of the null-detection of transits include: (i) a lower frequency of close-in planets in star clusters; (ii) a smaller planetary radius for planets orbiting super metal rich stars; or (iii) limitations in the basic assumptions. More extensive photometry with 3-4m class telescopes is required to allow conclusive inferences about the frequency of planets in NGC 6791. 
0704.01669	Possible polarisation and spin dependent aspects of quantum gravity	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:D. V. Ahluwalia-Khalilova, N. G. Gresnigt, Alex B. Nielsen, D. Schritt, T. F. Watson (University of Canterbury, New Zealand)	 Abstract: We argue that quantum gravity theories that carry a Lie algebraic modification of the Poincare' and Heisenberg algebras inevitably provide inhomogeneities that may serve as seeds for cosmological structure formation. Furthermore, in this class of theories one must expect a strong polarisation and spin dependence of various quantum-gravity effects. 
0704.01670	On the support genus of a contact structure	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Mehmet Firat Arikan	 Abstract: The algorithm given by Akbulut-Ozbagci constructs an explicit open book decomposition on a contact three-manifold described by a contact surgery on a link in the three-sphere. In this article, we will improve this algorithm by using Giroux's contact cell decomposition process. Our algorithm is more economical on choosing the supporting genus of the open book; in particular it gives a good upper bound for the recently defined ``minimal supporting genus invariant'' of contact structures. 
0704.01671	Very Massive Stars in High-Redshift Galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Mark Dijkstra, Stuart Wyithe (Melbourne)	 Abstract: A significant fraction of Lyman Alpha (Lya) emitting galaxies (LAEs) at z> 5.7 have rest-frame equivalent widths (EW) greater than ~100 Angstrom. However only a small fraction of the Lya flux produced by a galaxy is transmitted through the IGM, which implies intrinsic Lya EWs that are in excess of the maximum allowed for a population-II stellar population having a Salpeter mass function. In this paper we study characteristics of the sources powering Lya emission in high redshift galaxies. We propose a simple model for Lya emitters in which galaxies undergo a burst of very massive star formation that results in a large intrinsic EW, followed by a phase of population-II star formation with a lower EW. We confront this model with a range of high redshift observations and find that the model is able to simultaneously describe the following eight properties of the high redshift galaxy population with plausible values for parameters like the efficiency and duration of star formation: i-iv) the UV and Lya luminosity functions of LAEs at z=5.7 and 6.5, v-vi) the mean and variance of the EW distribution of Lya selected galaxies at z=5.7, vii) the EW distribution of i-drop galaxies at z~6, and viii) the observed correlation of stellar age with EW. Our modeling suggests that the observed anomalously large intrinsic equivalent widths require a burst of very massive star formation lasting no more than a few to ten percent of the galaxies star forming lifetime. This very massive star formation may indicate the presence of population-III star formation in a few per cent of i-drop galaxies, and in about half of the Lya selected galaxies. 
0704.01672	Two center multipole expansion method: application to macromolecular  systems	Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)	Authors:Ilia A. Solov'yov, Alexander V. Yakubovich, Andrey V. Solov'yov, Walter Greiner	 Abstract: We propose a new theoretical method for the calculation of the interaction energy between macromolecular systems at large distances. The method provides a linear scaling of the computing time with the system size and is considered as an alternative to the well known fast multipole method. Its efficiency, accuracy and applicability to macromolecular systems is analyzed and discussed in detail. 
0704.01673	Holographic formula for Q-curvature	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:C. Robin Graham, Andreas Juhl	 Abstract: This paper derives an explicit formula for Branson's Q-curvature in even-dimensional conformal geometry. The ingredients in the formula come from the Poincare metric in one higher dimension; hence the formula is called holographic. When specialized to the conformally flat case, the holographic formula expresses Q-curvature as a multiple of the Pfaffian and the divergence of a natural one-form. The paper also outlines the relation between holographic formulae for Q-curvature and a new theory of conformally covariant families of differential operators due to the second author. 
0704.01674	The azimuth structure of nuclear collisions -- I	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Thomas A. Trainor, David T. Kettler	 Abstract: We describe azimuth structure commonly associated with elliptic and directed flow in the context of 2D angular autocorrelations for the purpose of precise separation of so-called nonflow (mainly minijets) from flow. We extend the Fourier-transform description of azimuth structure to include power spectra and autocorrelations related by the Wiener-Khintchine theorem. We analyze several examples of conventional flow analysis in that context and question the relevance of reaction plane estimation to flow analysis. We introduce the 2D angular autocorrelation with examples from data analysis and describe a simulation exercise which demonstrates precise separation of flow and nonflow using the 2D autocorrelation method. We show that an alternative correlation measure based on Pearson's normalized covariance provides a more intuitive measure of azimuth structure. 
0704.01675	Exploiting Social Annotation for Automatic Resource Discovery	Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)	Authors:Anon Plangprasopchok, Kristina Lerman	 Abstract: Information integration applications, such as mediators or mashups, that require access to information resources currently rely on users manually discovering and integrating them in the application. Manual resource discovery is a slow process, requiring the user to sift through results obtained via keyword-based search. Although search methods have advanced to include evidence from document contents, its metadata and the contents and link structure of the referring pages, they still do not adequately cover information sources -- often called ``the hidden Web''-- that dynamically generate documents in response to a query. The recently popular social bookmarking sites, which allow users to annotate and share metadata about various information sources, provide rich evidence for resource discovery. In this paper, we describe a probabilistic model of the user annotation process in a social bookmarking system del.icio.us. We then use the model to automatically find resources relevant to a particular information domain. Our experimental results on data obtained from \emph{del.icio.us} show this approach as a promising method for helping automate the resource discovery task. 
0704.01676	Personalizing Image Search Results on Flickr	Information Retrieval (cs.IR)	Authors:Kristina Lerman, Anon Plangprasopchok, Chio Wong	 Abstract: The social media site Flickr allows users to upload their photos, annotate them with tags, submit them to groups, and also to form social networks by adding other users as contacts. Flickr offers multiple ways of browsing or searching it. One option is tag search, which returns all images tagged with a specific keyword. If the keyword is ambiguous, e.g., ``beetle'' could mean an insect or a car, tag search results will include many images that are not relevant to the sense the user had in mind when executing the query. We claim that users express their photography interests through the metadata they add in the form of contacts and image annotations. We show how to exploit this metadata to personalize search results for the user, thereby improving search performance. First, we show that we can significantly improve search precision by filtering tag search results by user's contacts or a larger social network that includes those contact's contacts. Secondly, we describe a probabilistic model that takes advantage of tag information to discover latent topics contained in the search results. The users' interests can similarly be described by the tags they used for annotating their images. The latent topics found by the model are then used to personalize search results by finding images on topics that are of interest to the user. 
0704.01677	Resummed Cross Section for Jet Production at Hadron Colliders	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Daniel de Florian, Werner Vogelsang	 Abstract: We study the resummation of large logarithmic perturbative corrections to the single-inclusive jet cross section at hadron colliders. The corrections we address arise near the threshold for the partonic reaction, when the incoming partons have just enough energy to produce the high-transverse-momentum final state. The structure of the resulting logarithmic corrections is known to depend crucially on the treatment of the invariant mass of the produced jet at threshold. We allow the jet to have a non-vanishing mass at threshold, which most closely corresponds to the situation in experiment. Matching our results to available semi-analytical next-to-leading-order calculations, we derive resummed results valid to next-to-leading logarithmic accuracy. We present numerical results for the resummation effects at Tevatron and RHIC energies. 
0704.01678	Settling the Complexity of Computing Two-Player Nash Equilibria	Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)	Authors:Xi Chen, Xiaotie Deng, Shang-Hua Teng	 Abstract: We settle a long-standing open question in algorithmic game theory. We prove that Bimatrix, the problem of finding a Nash equilibrium in a two-player game, is complete for the complexity class PPAD Polynomial Parity Argument, Directed version) introduced by Papadimitriou in 1991. This is the first of a series of results concerning the complexity of Nash equilibria. In particular, we prove the following theorems: Bimatrix does not have a fully polynomial-time approximation scheme unless every problem in PPAD is solvable in polynomial time. The smoothed complexity of the classic Lemke-Howson algorithm and, in fact, of any algorithm for Bimatrix is not polynomial unless every problem in PPAD is solvable in randomized polynomial time. Our results demonstrate that, even in the simplest form of non-cooperative games, equilibrium computation and approximation are polynomial-time equivalent to fixed point computation. Our results also have two broad complexity implications in mathematical economics and operations research: Arrow-Debreu market equilibria are PPAD-hard to compute. The P-Matrix Linear Complementary Problem is computationally harder than convex programming unless every problem in PPAD is solvable in polynomial time. 
0704.01679	Equation of State in Relativistic Magnetohydrodynamics: variable versus  constant adiabatic index	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Mignone, Jonathan C. McKinney	 Abstract: The role of the equation of state for a perfectly conducting, relativistic magnetized fluid is the main subject of this work. The ideal constant $\Gamma$-law equation of state, commonly adopted in a wide range of astrophysical applications, is compared with a more realistic equation of state that better approximates the single-specie relativistic gas. The paper focus on three different topics. First, the influence of a more realistic equation of state on the propagation of fast magneto-sonic shocks is investigated. This calls into question the validity of the constant $\Gamma$-law equation of state in problems where the temperature of the gas substantially changes across hydromagnetic waves. Second, we present a new inversion scheme to recover primitive variables (such as rest-mass density and pressure) from conservative ones that allows for a general equation of state and avoids catastrophic numerical cancellations in the non-relativistic and ultrarelativistic limits. Finally, selected numerical tests of astrophysical relevance (including magnetized accretion flows around Kerr black holes) are compared using different equations of state. Our main conclusion is that the choice of a realistic equation of state can considerably bear upon the solution when transitions from cold to hot gas (or viceversa) are present. Under these circumstances, a polytropic equation of state can significantly endanger the solution. 
0704.01680	Carbon Nanotube Thin Film Field Emitting Diode: Understanding the System  Response Based on Multiphysics Modeling	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:N. Sinha, D. Roy Mahapatra, J.T.W. Yeow, R.V.N. Melnik, D.A. Jaffray	 Abstract: In this paper, we model the evolution and self-assembly of randomly oriented carbon nanotubes (CNTs), grown on a metallic substrate in the form of a thin film for field emission under diode configuration. Despite high output, the current in such a thin film device often decays drastically. The present paper is focused on understanding this problem. A systematic, multiphysics based modelling approach is proposed. First, a nucleation coupled model for degradation of the CNT thin film is derived, where the CNTs are assumed to decay by fragmentation and formation of clusters. The random orientation of the CNTs and the electromechanical interaction are then modeled to explain the self-assembly. The degraded state of the CNTs and the electromechanical force are employed to update the orientation of the CNTs. Field emission current at the device scale is finally obtained by using the Fowler-Nordheim equation and integration over the computational cell surfaces on the anode side. The simulated results are in close agreement with the experimental results. Based on the developed model, numerical simulations aimed at understanding the effects of various geometric parameters and their statistical features on the device current history are reported. 
0704.01681	Demographics of Transition Objects	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Joan R. Najita, Stephen E. Strom, James Muzerolle	 Abstract: The unusual properties of transition objects (young stars with an optically thin inner disc surrounded by an optically thick outer disc) suggest that significant disc evolution has occured in these systems. We explore the nature of these systems by examining their demographics, specifically their stellar accretion rates (Mdot) and disc masses (Mdisc) compared to those of accreting T Tauri stars of comparable age. We find that transition objects in Taurus occupy a restricted region of the Mdot vs. Mdisc plane. Compared to non-transition single stars in Taurus, they have stellar accretion rates that are typically ~10 times lower at the same disc mass and median disc masses ~4 times larger. These properties are anticipated by several proposed planet formation theories and suggest that the formation of Jovian mass planets may play a significant role in explaining the origin of at least some transition objects. Considering transition objects as a distinct demographic group among accreting T Tauri stars leads to a tighter relationship between disc masses and stellar accretion rates, with a slope between the two quantities that is close to the value of unity expected in simple theories of disc accretion. 
0704.01682	Modeling the Field Emission Current Fluctuation in Carbon Nanotube Thin  Films	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:N. Sinha, D. Roy Mahapatra, J.T.W. Yeow, R.V.N. Melnik	 Abstract: Owing to their distinct properties, carbon nanotubes (CNTs) have emerged as promising candidate for field emission devices. It has been found experimentally that the results related to the field emission performance show variability. The design of an efficient field emitting device requires the analysis of the variabilities with a systematic and multiphysics based modeling approach. In this paper, we develop a model of randomly oriented CNTs in a thin film by coupling the field emission phenomena, the electron-phonon transport and the mechanics of single isolated CNT. A computational scheme is developed by which the states of CNTs are updated in time incremental manner. The device current is calculated by using Fowler-Nordheim equation for field emission to study the performance at the device scale. 
0704.01683	Spectral averaging for trace compatible operators	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Nurulla Azamov, Fyodor Sukochev	 Abstract: In this note the notions of trace compatible operators and infinitesimal spectral flow are introduced. We define the spectral shift function as the integral of infinitesimal spectral flow. It is proved that the spectral shift function thus defined is absolutely continuous and Krein's formula is established. Some examples of trace compatible affine spaces of operators are given. 
0704.01684	The molecular environment of massive star forming cores associated with  Class II methanol maser emission	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. N. Longmore (1 and 2), M. G. Burton (1), P. J. Barnes (3 and 1), T. Wong (1 and 2 and 5), C. R. Purcell (1 and 4), J. Ott (2 and 6) ((1) UNSW, (2) ATNF, (3) University of Sydney, (4) Jodrell Bank Observatory, (5)University of Illinois, (6) NRAO)	 Abstract: Methanol maser emission has proven to be an excellent signpost of regions undergoing massive star formation (MSF). To investigate their role as an evolutionary tracer, we have recently completed a large observing program with the ATCA to derive the dynamical and physical properties of molecular/ionised gas towards a sample of MSF regions traced by 6.7 GHz methanol maser emission. We find that the molecular gas in many of these regions breaks up into multiple sub-clumps which we separate into groups based on their association with/without methanol maser and cm continuum emission. The temperature and dynamic state of the molecular gas is markedly different between the groups. Based on these differences, we attempt to assess the evolutionary state of the cores in the groups and thus investigate the role of class II methanol masers as a tracer of MSF. 
0704.01685	Gravitating Global k-monopole	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Xing-hua Jin, Xin-zhou Li, Dao-jun Liu	 Abstract: A gravitating global k-monopole produces a tiny gravitational field outside the core in addition to a solid angular deficit in the k-field theory. As a new feature, the gravitational field can be attractive or repulsive depending on the non-canonical kinetic term. 
0704.01686	Effect of atomic beam alignment on photon correlation measurements in  cavity QED	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:L. Horvath, H. J. Carmichael	 Abstract: Quantum trajectory simulations of a cavity QED system comprising an atomic beam traversing a standing-wave cavity are carried out. The delayed photon coincident rate for forwards scattering is computed and compared with the measurements of Rempe et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 67, 1727 (1991)] and Foster et al. [Phys. Rev. A 61, 053821 (2000)]. It is shown that a moderate atomic beam misalignment can account for the degradation of the predicted correlation. Fits to the experimental data are made in the weak-field limit with a single adjustable parameter--the atomic beam tilt from perpendicular to the cavity axis. Departures of the measurement conditions from the weak-field limit are discussed. 
0704.01687	Studies on optimizing potential energy functions for maximal intrinsic  hyperpolarizability	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Juefei Zhou, Urszula B. Szafruga, David S. Watkins, Mark G. Kuzyk	 Abstract: We use numerical optimization to study the properties of (1) the class of one-dimensional potential energy functions and (2) systems of point charges in two-dimensions that yield the largest hyperpolarizabilities, which we find to be within 30% of the fundamental limit. We investigate the character of the potential energy functions and resulting wavefunctions and find that a broad range of potentials yield the same intrinsic hyperpolarizability ceiling of 0.709. 
0704.01688	Critical test for Altshuler-Aronov theory: Evolution of the density of  states singularity in double perovskite Sr$_2$FeMoO$_6$ with controlled  disorder	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:M. Kobayashi, K. Tanaka, A. Fujimori, Sugata Ray, D. D. Sarma	 Abstract: With high-resolution photoemission spectroscopy measurements, the density of states (DOS) near the Fermi level ($E_\mathrm{F}$) of double perovskite Sr$_2$FeMoO$_6$ having different degrees of Fe/Mo antisite disorder has been investigated with varying temperature. The DOS near $E_\mathrm{F}$ showed a systematic depletion with increasing degree of disorder, and recovered with increasing temperature. Altshuler-Aronov (AA) theory of disordered metals well explains the dependences of the experimental results. Scaling analysis of the spectra provides experimental indication for the functional form of the AA DOS singularity. 
0704.01689	Some Properties of and Open Problems on Hessian Nilpotent Polynomials	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Wenhua Zhao	 Abstract: In the recent progress [BE1], [M], [Z1] and [Z2], the well-known Jacobian conjecture ([BCW], [E]) has been reduced to a problem on HN (Hessian nilpotent) polynomials (the polynomials whose Hessian matrix are nilpotent) and their (deformed) inversion pairs. In this paper, we prove several results on HN polynomials, their (deformed) inversion pairs as well as the associated symmetric polynomial or formal maps. We also propose some open problems for further study of these objects. 
0704.01690	Two Results on Homogeneous Hessian Nilpotent Polynomials	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Arno van den Essen, Wenhua Zhao	 Abstract: Let $z=(z_1, ..., z_n)$ and $\Delta=\sum_{i=1}^n \frac {\partial^2}{\partial z^2_i}$ the Laplace operator. A formal power series $P(z)$ is said to be {\it Hessian Nilpotent}(HN) if its Hessian matrix $\Hes P(z)=(\frac {\partial^2 P}{\partial z_i\partial z_j})$ is nilpotent. In recent developments in [BE1], [M] and [Z], the Jacobian conjecture has been reduced to the following so-called {\it vanishing conjecture}(VC) of HN polynomials: {\it for any homogeneous HN polynomial $P(z)$ $($of degree $d=4$$)$, we have $\Delta^m P^{m+1}(z)=0$ for any $m>>0$.} In this paper, we first show that, the VC holds for any homogeneous HN polynomial $P(z)$ provided that the projective subvarieties ${\mathcal Z}_P$ and ${\mathcal Z}_{\sigma_2}$ of $\mathbb C P^{n-1}$ determined by the principal ideals generated by $P(z)$ and $\sigma_2(z):=\sum_{i=1}^n z_i^2$, respectively, intersect only at regular points of ${\mathcal Z}_P$. Consequently, the Jacobian conjecture holds for the symmetric polynomial maps $F=z-\nabla P$ with $P(z)$ HN if $F$ has no non-zero fixed point $w\in \mathbb C^n$ with $\sum_{i=1}^n w_i^2=0$. Secondly, we show that the VC holds for a HN formal power series $P(z)$ if and only if, for any polynomial $f(z)$, $\Delta^m (f(z)P(z)^m)=0$ when $m>>0$. 
0704.01691	A Vanishing Conjecture on Differential Operators with Constant  Coefficients	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Wenhua Zhao	 Abstract: In the recent progress [BE1], [Me] and [Z2], the well-known JC (Jacobian conjecture) ([BCW], [E]) has been reduced to a VC (vanishing conjecture) on the Laplace operators and HN (Hessian nilpotent) polynomials (the polynomials whose Hessian matrix are nilpotent). In this paper, we first show that the vanishing conjecture above, hence also the JC, is equivalent to a vanishing conjecture for all 2nd order homogeneous differential operators $\Lambda$ and $\Lambda$-nilpotent polynomials $P$ (the polynomials $P(z)$ satisfying $\Lambda^m P^m=0$ for all $m\ge 1$). We then transform some results in the literature on the JC, HN polynomials and the VC of the Laplace operators to certain results on $\Lambda$-nilpotent polynomials and the associated VC for 2nd order homogeneous differential operators $\Lambda$. This part of the paper can also be read as a short survey on HN polynomials and the associated VC in the more general setting. Finally, we discuss a still-to-be-understood connection of $\Lambda$-nilpotent polynomials in general with the classical orthogonal polynomials in one or more variables. This connection provides a conceptual understanding for the isotropic properties of homogeneous $\Lambda$-nilpotent polynomials for the 2nd order homogeneous full rank differential operators $\Lambda$ with constant coefficients. 
0704.01692	Effects of accelerating growth on the evolution of weighted complex  networks	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Zhongzhi Zhang, Lujun Fang, Shuigeng Zhou, Jihong Guan	 Abstract: Many real systems possess accelerating statistics where the total number of edges grows faster than the network size. In this paper, we propose a simple weighted network model with accelerating growth. We derive analytical expressions for the evolutions and distributions for strength, degree, and weight, which are relevant to accelerating growth. We also find that accelerating growth determines the clustering coefficient of the networks. Interestingly, the distributions for strength, degree, and weight display a transition from scale-free to exponential form when the parameter with respect to accelerating growth increases from a small to large value. All the theoretical predictions are successfully contrasted with extensive numerical simulations. 
0704.01693	N_p N_n Scheme Based on New Empirical Formula for Excitation Energy	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Jin-Hee Yoon, Eunja Ha, Dongwoo Cha	 Abstract: We examine the $N_p N_n$ scheme based on a recently proposed simple empirical formula which is highly valid for the excitation energy of the first excited natural parity even multipole states in even-even nuclei. We demonstrate explicitly that the $N_p N_n$ scheme for the excitation energy emerges from the separate exponential dependence of the excitation energy on the valence nucleon numbers $N_p$ and $N_n$ together with the fact that only a limited set of numbers is allowed for the $N_p$ and $N_n$ of the existing nuclei. 
0704.01694	Locally Decodable Codes From Nice Subsets of Finite Fields and Prime  Factors of Mersenne Numbers	Computational Complexity (cs.CC)	Authors:Kiran S. Kedlaya, Sergey Yekhanin	 Abstract: A k-query Locally Decodable Code (LDC) encodes an n-bit message x as an N-bit codeword C(x), such that one can probabilistically recover any bit x_i of the message by querying only k bits of the codeword C(x), even after some constant fraction of codeword bits has been corrupted. The major goal of LDC related research is to establish the optimal trade-off between length and query complexity of such codes. Recently [Y] introduced a novel technique for constructing locally decodable codes and vastly improved the upper bounds for code length. The technique is based on Mersenne primes. In this paper we extend the work of [Y] and argue that further progress via these methods is tied to progress on an old number theory question regarding the size of the largest prime factors of Mersenne numbers. Specifically, we show that every Mersenne number m=2^t-1 that has a prime factor p>m^\gamma yields a family of k(\gamma)-query locally decodable codes of length Exp(n^{1/t}). Conversely, if for some fixed k and all \epsilon > 0 one can use the technique of [Y] to obtain a family of k-query LDCs of length Exp(n^\epsilon); then infinitely many Mersenne numbers have prime factors arger than known currently. 
0704.01695	Pair production with neutrinos in an intense background magnetic field	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Duane A. Dicus, Wayne W. Repko, Todd M. Tinsley	 Abstract: We present a detailed calculation of the electron-positron production rate using neutrinos in an intense background magnetic field. The computation is done for the process nu -> nu e- e+ (where nu can be nu_e, nu_mu, or nu_tau) within the framework of the Standard Model. Results are given for various combinations of Landau-levels over a range of possible incoming neutrino energies and magnetic field strengths. 
0704.01696	Theoretical Aspects of the SOM Algorithm	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Marie Cottrell (SAMOS, Matisse), Jean-Claude Fort (SAMOS, Matisse, Iecn), Gilles Pagès (PMA)	 Abstract: The SOM algorithm is very astonishing. On the one hand, it is very simple to write down and to simulate, its practical properties are clear and easy to observe. But, on the other hand, its theoretical properties still remain without proof in the general case, despite the great efforts of several authors. In this paper, we pass in review the last results and provide some conjectures for the future work. 
0704.01697	Effect of the Spatial Dispersion on the Shape of a Light Pulse in a  Quantum Well	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:L. I. Korovin, I. G. Lang, S. T. Pavlov	 Abstract: Reflectance, transmittance and absorbance of a symmetric light pulse, the carrying frequency of which is close to the frequency of interband transitions in a quantum well, are calculated. Energy levels of the quantum well are assumed discrete, and two closely located excited levels are taken into account. A wide quantum well (the width of which is comparable to the length of the light wave, corresponding to the pulse carrying frequency) is considered, and the dependance of the interband matrix element of the momentum operator on the light wave vector is taken into account. Refractive indices of barriers and quantum well are assumed equal each other. The problem is solved for an arbitrary ratio of radiative and nonradiative lifetimes of electronic excitations. It is shown that the spatial dispersion essentially affects the shapes of reflected and transmitted pulses. The largest changes occur when the radiative broadening is close to the difference of frequencies of interband transitions taken into account. 
0704.01698	The origin of the anomalously strong influence of out-of-plane disorder  on high-Tc superconductivity	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Y. Okada, T. Takeuchi, T. Baba, S. Shin, H. Ikuta	 Abstract: The electronic structure of Bi2Sr2-xRxCuOy(R=La, Eu) near the (pi,0) point of the first Brillouin zone was studied by means of angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES). The temperature T* above which the pseudogap structure in the ARPES spectrum disappears was found to have an R dependence that is opposite to that ofthe superconducting transition temperature Tc. This indicates that the pseudogap state is competing with high-Tc superconductivity, and the large Tc suppression observed with increasing the out-of-plane disorder is due to the stabilization of the pseudogap state. 
0704.01699	Relativistic Hydrodynamics at RHIC and LHC	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Tetsufumi Hirano	 Abstract: Recent development of a hydrodynamic model is discussed by putting an emphasis on realistic treatment of the early and late stages in relativistic heavy ion collisions. The model, which incorporates a hydrodynamic description of the quark-gluon plasma with a kinetic approach of hadron cascades, is applied to analysis of elliptic flow data at the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider energy. It is predicted that the elliptic flow parameter based on the hybrid model increases with the collision energy up to the Large Hadron Collider energy. 
0704.01700	Retract rationality and Noether's problem	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:Ming-chang Kang	 Abstract: Let K be any field and G be a finite group. We will prove that, if K is any field, p an odd prime number, and G is a non-abelian group of exponent p with |G|=p^3 or p^4 satisfying [K(\zeta_p):K] <= 2, then K(G) is rational over K. We will also show that K(G) is retract rational if G belongs to a much larger class of p-groups. In particular, generic G-polynomials of G-Galois extensions exist for these groups. 
0704.01701	Noether's problem for some p-groups	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:Ming-chang Kang, Shou-Jen Hu	 Abstract: Let K be any field and G be a finite group. Noether's problem asks whether the fixed field is rational (=purely transcendental) over K. We will prove that if G is a non-abelian p-group of order p^n containing a cyclic subgroup of index p and K is any field containing a primitive p^{n-2}-th root of unity, then K(G) is rational over K. 
0704.01702	The canonical volume of threefolds of general type with $χ<1$	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Jungkai A. Chen, Meng Chen	 Abstract: We prove that the canonical volume $K^3\geq {1/30}$ for all projective 3-folds of general type with $\chi(\mathcal{O})\leq 0$. This bound is sharp. 
0704.01703	Very High Energy Gamma Rays from Supernova Remnants and Constraints on  the Galactic Interstellar Radiation Field	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T. A. Porter, I. V. Moskalenko, A. W. Strong	 Abstract: The large-scale Galactic interstellar radiation field (ISRF) is the result of stellar emission and dust re-processing of starlight. Where the energy density of the ISRF is high (e.g., the Galactic Centre), the dominant gamma-ray emission in individual supernova remnants (SNRs), such as G0.9+0.1, may come from inverse Compton (IC) scattering of the ISRF. Several models of the ISRF exist. The most recent one, which has been calculated by us, predicts a significantly higher ISRF than the well-used model of Mathis, Mezger, and Panagia. However,comparison with data is limited to local observations. Based on our current estimate of the ISRF we predict the gamma-ray emission in the SNRs G0.9+0.1 and RXJ1713, and pair-production absorption features above 20 TeV in the spectra of G0.9+0.1, J1713-381, and J1634-472. We discuss how GLAST, along with current and future very high energy instruments, may be able to provide upper bounds on the large-scale ISRF. 
0704.01704	Magneto-oscillations due to electron-electron interactions in the ac  conductivity of a 2D electron gas	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:T. A. Sedrakyan, M. E. Raikh	 Abstract: Electron-electron interactions give rise to the correction, \delta\sigma^{int}(\omega), to the ac magnetoconductivity, \sigma(\omega), of a clean 2D electron gas that is periodic in \omega_c^{-1}, where \omega_c is the cyclotron frequency. Unlike conventional harmonics of the cyclotron resonance, which are periodic with \omega, this correction is periodic with \omega^{3/2}. Oscillations in \delta\sigma^{int}(\omega) develop at low magnetic fields, \omega_c\ll\omega, when the conventional harmonics are suppressed by the disorder. Their origin is a {\em double} backscattering of an electron from the impurity-induced Friedel oscillations. During the time \sim\omega^{-1} between the two backscattering events the electron travels only a {\em small portion} of the Larmour circle. 
0704.01705	Optimal fluctuation approach to a directed polymer in a random medium	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:I.V. Kolokolov, S.E. Korshunov	 Abstract: A modification of the optimal fluctuation approach is applied to study the tails of the free energy distribution function P(F) for an elastic string in quenched disorder both in the regions of the universal behavior of P(F) and in the regions of large fluctuations, where the behavior of P(F) is non-universal. The difference between the two regimes is shown to consist in whether it is necessary or not to take into account the renormalization of parameters by the fluctuations of disorder in the vicinity of the optimal fluctuation. 
0704.01706	Implementation of a Gauss convoluted Pandel PDF for track reconstruction  in Neutrino Telescopes	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:N. van Eijndhoven, O. Fadiran, G. Japaridze	 Abstract: A probability distribution function is presented which provides a realistic description of the detection of scattered photons. The resulting probabilities can be described analytically by means of a superposition of several special functions. These exact expressions can be evaluated numerically only for small distances and limited time residuals, due to computer accuracy limitations. In this report we provide approximations for the exact expressions in different regions of the distance-time residual space, defined by the detector geometry and the space-time scale of an event. These approximations can be evaluated numerically with a relative error with respect to the exact expression at the boundaries of less than 0.001. 
0704.01707	A Cut-free Sequent Calculus for Bi-Intuitionistic Logic: Extended  Version	Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)	Authors:Linda Buisman, Rajeev Goré	 Abstract: Bi-intuitionistic logic is the extension of intuitionistic logic with a connective dual to implication. Bi-intuitionistic logic was introduced by Rauszer as a Hilbert calculus with algebraic and Kripke semantics. But her subsequent ``cut-free'' sequent calculus for BiInt has recently been shown by Uustalu to fail cut-elimination. We present a new cut-free sequent calculus for BiInt, and prove it sound and complete with respect to its Kripke semantics. Ensuring completeness is complicated by the interaction between implication and its dual, similarly to future and past modalities in tense logic. Our calculus handles this interaction using extended sequents which pass information from premises to conclusions using variables instantiated at the leaves of failed derivation trees. Our simple termination argument allows our calculus to be used for automated deduction, although this is not its main purpose. 
0704.01708	From virtual work principle to least action principle for stochastic  dynamics	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Qiuping A. Wang (ISMANS)	 Abstract: After the justification of the maximum entropy principle for equilibrium mechanical system from the principle of virtual work, i.e., the virtual work of microscopic forces on the elements of a mechanical system vanishes in thermodynamic equilibrium, we present in this paper an application of the same principle to dynamical systems out of equilibrium. The aim of this work is to justify a least action principle and the concurrent maximum path entropy principle for nonequilibrium thermodynamic systems. 
0704.01709	Traitement Des Donnees Manquantes Au Moyen De L'Algorithme De Kohonen	Applications (stat.AP)	Authors:Marie Cottrell (SAMOS, Matisse), Smail Ibbou (SAMOS, Matisse), Patrick Letrémy (SAMOS, Matisse)	 Abstract: Nous montrons comment il est possible d'utiliser l'algorithme d'auto organisation de Kohonen pour traiter des donn\'ees avec valeurs manquantes et estimer ces derni\`eres. Apr\`es un rappel m\'ethodologique, nous illustrons notre propos \`a partir de trois applications \`a des donn\'ees r\'eelles. ----- We show how it is possible to use the Kohonen self-organizing algorithm to deal with data which contain missing values and to estimate them. After a methodological recall, we illustrate our purpose from three real databases applications. 
0704.01710	Further Analysis of Excitations of Quarks at Finite Temperature -- Mass  Effect and Pole Structure --	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Kazuya Mitsutani, Masakiyo Kitazawa, Teiji Kunihiro, Yukio Nemoto	 Abstract: We calculate the spectral function of the massive quark at finite temperature (T) using a Yukawa model and show that the peak in the negative energy region among the three-peaks found in a previous work for the massless quark is largely suppressed. To explore the underlying mechanism of this behavior, we also investigate the pole structure of the retarded Green function of the quark. We will show the result only for the massless quark. We find the residues of the poles corresponding the three-peaks are all comparable at $T\sim m_b$. We also show that the multi-peak structure of the quark spectra is well described in the pole approximation which indicates that the quasi-paricle picture is valid in this $T$ region. 
0704.01711	Dynamical Equilibrium, trajectories study in an economical system. The  case of the labor market	Applications (stat.AP)	Authors:Patrick Letrémy (SAMOS, CES), Marie Cottrell (SAMOS, CES), Patrice Gaubert (SAMOS, CES), Joseph Rynkiewicz (SAMOS, CES)	 Abstract: The paper deals with the study of labor market dynamics, and aims to characterize its equilibriums and possible trajectories. The theoretical background is the theory of the segmented labor market. The main idea is that this theory is well adapted to interpret the observed trajectories, due to the heterogeneity of the work situations. 
0704.01712	Borromean Entanglement Revisited	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Ayumu Sugita	 Abstract: An interesting analogy between quantum entangled states and topological links was suggested by Aravind. In particular, he emphasized a connection between the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state and the Borromean rings. However, he made the connection in a way that depends on the choice of measurement basis. We reconsider it in a basis-independent way by using the reduced density matrix. 
0704.01713	An SiO Maser Search off the Galactic Plane	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Deguchi, T. Fujii, Y. Ita, H. Imai, H. Izumiura, O. Kameya, N. Matsunaga, A. Miyazaki, A. Mizutani, Y. Nakada, J. Nakashima, A. Winnberg	 Abstract: We have searched for the SiO J=1--0 v= 1 and 2 maser lines at ~ 43 GHz in 277 2MASS/MSX/IRAS sources off the Galactic plane (|b|> 3 deg), which resulted in 119 (112 new) detections. Among the new detections, are two very faint objects with MSX 12 micron flux densities below 2 Jy. These are likely to be O-rich AGB-stars associated with dwarf-galaxy tidal tails. The sample also includes medium bright MSX objects at moderately high Galactic latitudes (3 deg<|b|<5 deg) and in the IRAS gap at higher latitudes. A signature of a warp of the inner Galactic disk is found for a disk subsample. This warp appears relatively strongly in the area of 0<l<45 deg and 3<|b|<5 deg. We also found a group of stars that does not follow to the Galactic rotation. This feature appears in the Galactic disk at l~ 27 deg, and extends more than 15 deg in Galactic latitude, like a stream of tidal debris from a dwarf galaxy. 
0704.01714	Dislocation Dynamics in a Crystal Lattice (Peierls-Nabarro) Relief	Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)	Authors:B. V. Petukhov	 Abstract: The theory of the dislocation motion in the periodic potential relief of the crystal lattice (the Peierls-Nabarro barriers) is reviewed. On the basis of the kink mechanism the temperature dependence of the flow stress is described for a wide class of materials. The theory of quantum mechanical dislocation tunnelling through the Peierls-Nabarro barriers is extended and compared with experimental data on the plasticity of alkali halides, BCC and HCP metals at low temperatures. The behavior of the flow stress at the range of athermic anomalies is modeled by changing the mechanism of the dislocation motion from the thermally activated hopping over the barriers to the quantum tunnelling through them. Some results of previous calculations are represented in a more explicit convenient for applications form. The pronounced effect of the switching between the normal and the superconducting states on the flow stress of metals is explained on the basis of the change in the dissipative properties of the electron subsystem affecting the dislocation motion. 
0704.01715	Spectrum of cosmic rays, produced in supernova remnants	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:E.G.Berezhko, H.J.Voelk	 Abstract: Nonlinear kinetic theory of cosmic ray (CR) acceleration in supernova remnants is employed to calculate CR spectra. The magnetic field in SNRs is assumed to be significantly amplified by the efficiently accelerating nuclear CR component. It is shown that the calculated CR spectra agree in a satisfactory way with the existing measurements up to the energy $10^{17}$ eV. The power law spectrum of protons extends up to the energy $3\times 10^{15}$ eV with a subsequent exponential cutoff. It gives a natural explanation for the observed knee in the Galactic CR spectrum. The maximum energy of the accelerated nuclei is proportional to their charge number $Z$. Therefore the break in the Galactic CR spectrum is the result of the contribution of progressively heavier species in the overall CR spectrum so that at $10^{17}$ eV the CR spectrum is dominated by iron group nuclei. It is shown that this component plus a suitably chosen extragalactic CR component can give a consistent description for the entire Galactic CR spectrum. 
0704.01716	One-parameter families of functions in the Pick class	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Waldemar Paluba	 Abstract: In the one-parameter family of power-law maps of the form $f_a(x)=-|x|^{\alpha}+a,$ $\alpha >1,$ we give examples of mutually related dynamically determined quantities, depending on the parameter $a$, such that one is a Pick function of the following one. These Pick functions are extendable by reflection through the $(1,+\infty)$ half-axis and have completely monotone derivatives there. 
0704.01717	The homology of the Steinberg variety and Weyl group coinvariants	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:J. Matthew Douglass, Gerhard Roehrle	 Abstract: Let G be a complex, connected, reductive algebraic group with Weyl group W and Steinberg variety Z. We show that the graded Borel-Moore homology of Z is isomorphic to the smash product of the coinvariant algebra of W and the group algebra of W. 
0704.01718	Spin-spin Correlation in Some Excited States of Transverse Ising Model	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Anjan Kumar Chandra, Subinay Dasgupta	 Abstract: We consider the transverse Ising model in one dimension with nearest-neighbour interaction and calculate exactly the longitudinal spin-spin correlation for a class of excited states. These states are known to play an important role in the perturbative treatment of one-dimensional transverse Ising model with frustrated second-neighbour interaction. To calculate the correlation, we follow the earlier procedure of Wu, use Szego's theorem and also use Fisher-Hartwig conjecture. The result is that the correlation decays algebraically with distance ($n$) as $1/\surd n$ and is oscillatory or non-oscillatory depending on the magnitude of the transverse field. 
0704.01719	Radiative quarkonium decays and the NMSSM Higgs interpretation of the  HyperCP Sigma+ --> p mu+mu- events	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Michelangelo L. Mangano, Paolo Nason	 Abstract: We study the potential of radiative decays of the Upsilon(1S) and of the phi mesons to search for a light pseudoscalar Higgs boson, proposed as a possible interpretation of Sigma+ --> p mu+mu- events observed by the HyperCP collaboration at Fermilab. We conclude that the detection of this signal should certainly be possible with the current CLEO Upsilon(1S) data, and is within the reach of KLOE in at least part of the range of couplings suggested by the HyperCP findings. 
0704.01720	A resummed perturbative estimate for the quarkonium spectral function in  hot QCD	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:M. Laine	 Abstract: By making use of the finite-temperature real-time static potential that was introduced and computed to leading non-trivial order in Hard Thermal Loop resummed perturbation theory in recent work, and solving numerically a Schr\"odinger-type equation, we estimate the quarkonium (in practice, bottomonium) contribution to the spectral function of the electromagnetic current in hot QCD. The spectral function shows a single resonance peak which becomes wider and then disappears as the temperature is increased beyond 450 MeV or so. This behaviour can be compared with recently attempted lattice reconstructions of the same quantity, based on the ``maximum entropy method'', which generically show several peaks. We also specify the dependence of our results on the spatial momentum of the electromagnetic current, as well as on the baryon chemical potential characterising the hot QCD plasma. 
0704.01721	An Exotic Approach to Hadron Physics	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Masako Bando, Yoko Fukase, Jonathan Shock, Akio Sugamoto, Sachiko Terunuma	 Abstract: An exotic approach to hadrons is discussed. It is based on the recently developed open-closed string duality explicitly conjectured as the AdS/CFT correspondence. Mesons as well as pentaquarks are studied in this approach. Spins are introduced as distribution functions over the string, and a second quantization method of string theory is examined and used to estimate the mass and decay width of various hadrons. This approach provides a way to understand the structure of flavor by a configuration of probe branes. 
0704.01722	Fermi Surface Reconstruction without Breakdown of Kondo Screening at  Quantum Critical Point	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Hiroshi Watanabe, Masao Ogata	 Abstract: Motivated by recent Hall-effect experiment in YbRh$_2$Si$_2$, we study ground state properties of a Kondo lattice model in a two-dimensional square lattice using variational Monte Carlo method. We show that there are two types of phase transition, antiferromagnetic transition and topological one (Fermi surface reconstruction). In a wide region of parameters, these two transitions occur simultaneously without the breakdown of Kondo screening, accompanied by a discontinuous change of the Hall coefficient. This result is consistent with the experiment and gives a novel theoretical picture for the quantum critical point in heavy fermion systems. 
0704.01723	A User-Friendly Code to Diagnose Chromospheric Plasmas	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Asensio Ramos (1), J. Trujillo Bueno (1,2) ((1) IAC, (2) CSIC)	 Abstract: The physical interpretation of spectropolarimetric observations of lines of neutral helium, such as those of the 10830 A multiplet, represents an excellent opportunity for investigating the magnetism of plasma structures in the solar chromosphere. Here we present a powerful forward modeling and inversion code that permits either to calculate the emergent intensity and polarization for any given magnetic field vector or to infer the dynamical and magnetic properties from the observed Stokes profiles. This diagnostic tool is based on the quantum theory of spectral line polarization, which self-consistently accounts for the Hanle and Zeeman effects in the most general case of the incomplete Paschen-Back effect regime. We also take into account radiative transfer effects. An efficient numerical scheme based on global optimization methods has been applied. Our Stokes inversion code permits a fast and reliable determination of the global minimum. 
0704.01724	Inhomogeneous color superconductivity and the cooling of compact stars	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:M. Ruggieri	 Abstract: In this talk I discuss the inhomogeneous (LOFF) color superconductive phases of Quantum Chromodynamics (QCD). In particular, I show the effect of a core of LOFF phase on the cooling of a compact star. 
0704.01725	Scaling anomaly in cosmic string background	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Pulak Ranjan Giri	 Abstract: We show that the classical scale symmetry of a particle moving in cosmic string background is broken upon inequivalent quantization of the classical system, leading to anomaly. The consequence of this anomaly is the formation of single bound state in the coupling interval \gamma\in(-1,1). The inequivalent quantization is characterized by a 1-parameter family of self-adjoint extension parameter \omega. It has been conjectured that the formation of loosely bound state in cosmic string background may lead to the so called anomalous scattering cross section for the particles, which is usually seen in molecular physics. 
0704.01726	On de Broglie's quantum particle as the soliton solution of linear  Schrödinger equation	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Agung Budiyono	 Abstract: We develop a class of soliton solution of {\it linear} Schr\"odinger equation without external potential. The quantum probability density generates its own boundary inside which there is internal vibration whose wave number is determined by the velocity of the particle as firstly conjectured by de Broglie. Assuming resonance of the internal vibration will lead to quantization of particle's momentum in term of wave number of the envelope quantum probability density. We further show that the linearity of the Schr\"odinger equation allows us to have non-interacting many solitons solution through superposition, each describing a particle with equal mass. 
0704.01727	Stringy corrections to a time-dependent background solution of string  and M-Theory	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Gustavo Niz, Neil Turok	 Abstract: We consider one of the simplest time-dependent backgrounds in M-theory, describing the shrinking away of the M-theory dimension with the other spatial dimensions static. As the M-theory dimension becomes small, the situation becomes well-described by string theory in a singular cosmological background where the string coupling tends to zero but the $\alpha'$-corrections become large, near the cosmic singularity. We compute these $\alpha'$-corrections, both for the background and for linearized perturbations, in heterotic string theory, and show they may be reproduced by a map from eleven-dimensional M-theory. 
0704.01728	Doubly Special Relativity and Finsler geometry	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:S. Mignemi	 Abstract: We discuss the recent proposal of implementing Doubly Special Relativity in configuration space by means of Finsler geometry. Although this formalism leads to a consistent description of the dynamics of a particle, it does not seem to give a complete description of the physics. In particular, the Finsler line element is not invariant under the deformed Lorentz transformations of Doubly Special Relativity. We study in detail some simple applications of the formalism. 
0704.01729	The Sedentary Survey of Extreme High Energy Peaked BL Lacs III. Results  from Optical Spectroscopy	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Piranomonte, M. Perri, P. Giommi, H. Landt, P. Padovani	 Abstract: The multi-frequency Sedentary Survey is a flux limited, statistically well-defined sample of highly X-ray dominated BL Lacertae objects (HBLs) which includes 150 sources. In this paper, the third of the series, we report the results of a dedicated optical spectroscopy campaign that, together with results from other independent optical follow up programs, led to the spectroscopic identification of all sources in the sample. We carried out a systematic spectroscopic campaign for the observation of all unidentified objects of the sample using the ESO 3.6m, the KPNO 4m, and the TNG optical telescopes. We present new identifications and optical spectra for 76 sources, 50 of which are new BL Lac objects, 18 are sources previously referred as BL Lacs but for which no redshift information was available, and 8 are broad emission lines AGNs. We find that the multi-frequency selection technique used to build the survey is highly efficient (about 90%) in selecting BL Lacs objects. We present positional and spectroscopic information for all confirmed BL Lac objects. Our data allowed us to determined 36 redshifts out of the 50 new BL Lacs and 5 new redshifts for the previously known objects. The redshift distribution of the complete sample is presented and compared with that of other BL Lacs samples. For 26 sources without recognizable absorption features, we calculated lower limits to the redshift using a method based on simulated optical spectra with different ratios between jet and galaxy emission. For a subsample of 38 object with high-quality spectra, we find a correlation between the optical spectral slope, the 1.4 GHz radio luminosity, and the Ca H&K break value, indicating that for powerful/beamed sources the optical light is dominated by the non-thermal emission from the jet. 
0704.01730	Latin bitrades derived from groups	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Nicholas J. Cavenagh, Ales Drapal, Carlo Hamalainen	 Abstract: A latin bitrade is a pair of partial latin squares which are disjoint, occupy the same set of non-empty cells, and whose corresponding rows and columns contain the same set of entries. Dr\'apal (\cite{Dr9}) showed that a latin bitrade is equivalent to three derangements whose product is the identity and whose cycles pairwise have at most one point in common. By letting a group act on itself by right translation, we show how some latin bitrades may be derived from groups without specifying an independent group action. Properties of latin trades such as homogeneousness, minimality (via thinness) and orthogonality may also be encoded succinctly within the group structure. We apply the construction to some well-known groups, constructing previously unknown latin bitrades. In particular, we show the existence of minimal, $k$-homogeneous latin trades for each odd $k\geq 3$. In some cases these are the smallest known such examples. 
0704.01731	Wormholes in the accelerating universe	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Pedro F Gonzalez-Diaz, Prado Martin-Moruno (IMAFF, CSIC)	 Abstract: We discuss different arguments that have been raised against the viability of the big trip process, reaching the conclusions that this process can actually occur by accretion of phantom energy onto the wormholes and that it is stable and might occur in the global context of a multiverse model. We finally argue that the big trip does not contradict any holographic bounds on entropy and information. 
0704.01732	Spheroidal and torsional modes of quasistatic shear oscillations in the  solid globe models of nuclear physics and pulsar astrophysics	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Bastrukov, H-K. Chang, S. Misicu, I. Molodtsova, D. Podgainy	 Abstract: The past three decades of investigation on nuclear physics and pulsar astrophysics have seen gradual recognition that elastodynamic approach to the continuum mechanics of nuclear matter provides proper account of macroscopic motions of degenerate Fermi-matter constituting interior of the nuclear material objects, the densest of all known today. This paper focuses on one theoretical issue of this development which is concerned with oscillatory behavior of a viscoelastic solid globe in the regime of quasistatic, force-free, non-compressional oscillations less investigated in the literature compared to oscillations in the regime of standing shear waves. We show that in this case the problem of computing frequency and lifetime of spheroidal and torsional modes of non-radial shear vibrations damped by viscosity can be unambiguously resolved by working from the energy balance equation and taking advantage of the Rayleigh's variational method. The efficiency of this method is demonstrated by solid globe models of nuclear physics and pulsar astrophysics dealing with oscillations of a spherical mass of a viscoelastic Fermi-solid with homogeneous and non-homogeneous profiles of the bulk density, the shear modulus, and the shear viscosity. 
0704.01733	Extra force in $f(R)$ modified theories of gravity	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Orfeu Bertolami, Christian G. Boehmer, Tiberiu Harko, Francisco S.N. Lobo	 Abstract: The equation of motion for test particles in $f(R)$ modified theories of gravity is derived. By considering an explicit coupling between an arbitrary function of the scalar curvature, $R$, and the Lagrangian density of matter, it is shown that an extra force arises. This extra force is orthogonal to the four-velocity and the corresponding acceleration law is obtained in the weak field limit. Connections with MOND and with the Pioneer anomaly are further discussed. 
0704.01734	Averaging and Cosmological Observations	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:A.A. Coley	 Abstract: The gravitational field equations on cosmological scales are obtained by averaging the Einstein field equations of general relativity. By assuming spatial homogeneity and isotropy on the largest scales, the local inhomogeneities affect the dynamics though correction (backreaction) terms, which can lead to behaviour qualitatively and quantitatively different from the Friedmann-Lema\^{i}tre-Robertson-Walker models. The effects of averaging on cosmological observations are discussed. It is argued that, based on estimates from observational data, the backreaction (and, in particular, the averaged spatial curvature) can have a very significant dynamical effect on the evolution of the Universe and must be taken into account in observational cosmology. 
0704.01735	Calorimetry of Bose-Einstein condensates	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:P. B. Blakie, E. Toth, M. J. Davis	 Abstract: We outline a practical scheme for measuring the thermodynamic properties of a Bose-Einstein condensate as a function of internal energy. We propose using Bragg scattering and controlled trap manipulations to impart a precise amount of energy to a near zero temperature condensate. After thermalisation the temperature can be measured using standard techniques to determine the state equation $T(U,N,\omega)$. Our analysis accounts for interaction effects and the excitation of constants of motion which restrict the energy available for thermalisation. 
0704.01736	Parallelizing Quantum Circuits	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Anne Broadbent, Elham Kashefi	 Abstract: We present a novel automated technique for parallelizing quantum circuits via forward and backward translation to measurement-based quantum computing patterns and analyze the trade off in terms of depth and space complexity. As a result we distinguish a class of polynomial depth circuits that can be parallelized to logarithmic depth while adding only polynomial many auxiliary qubits. In particular, we provide for the first time a full characterization of patterns with flow of arbitrary depth, based on the notion of influencing paths and a simple rewriting system on the angles of the measurement. Our method leads to insightful knowledge for constructing parallel circuits and as applications, we demonstrate several constant and logarithmic depth circuits. Furthermore, we prove a logarithmic separation in terms of quantum depth between the quantum circuit model and the measurement-based model. 
0704.01737	Quantum memory for images - a quantum hologram	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Denis V. Vasilyev, Ivan V. Sokolov, Eugene S. Polzik	 Abstract: Matter-light quantum interface and quantum memory for light are important ingredients of quantum information protocols, such as quantum networks, distributed quantum computation, etc. In this Letter we present a spatially multimode scheme for quantum memory for light, which we call a quantum hologram. Our approach uses a multi-atom ensemble which has been shown to be efficient for a single spatial mode quantum memory. Due to the multi-atom nature of the ensemble it is capable of storing many spatial modes, a feature critical for the present proposal. A quantum hologram has a higher storage capacity compared to a classical hologram, and is capable of storing quantum features of an image, such as multimode superposition and entangled quantum states, something that a standard hologram is unable to achieve. Due to optical parallelism, the information capacity of the quantum hologram will obviously exceed that of a single-mode scheme. 
0704.01738	Financial time-series analysis: A brief overview	Statistical Finance (q-fin.ST)	Authors:A. Chakraborti, M. Patriarca, M.S. Santhanam	 Abstract: Prices of commodities or assets produce what is called time-series. Different kinds of financial time-series have been recorded and studied for decades. Nowadays, all transactions on a financial market are recorded, leading to a huge amount of data available, either for free in the Internet or commercially. Financial time-series analysis is of great interest to practitioners as well as to theoreticians, for making inferences and predictions. Furthermore, the stochastic uncertainties inherent in financial time-series and the theory needed to deal with them make the subject especially interesting not only to economists, but also to statisticians and physicists. While it would be a formidable task to make an exhaustive review on the topic, with this review we try to give a flavor of some of its aspects. 
0704.01739	Integral representations for solutions of exponential Gauss-Manin  systems	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Marco Hien, Celine Roucairol	 Abstract: Let f,g be two algebraically independent regular functions from the smooth affine complex variety U to the affine line. The associated exponential Gauss-Manin systems on the affine line are defined to be the cohomology sheaves of the direct image of the exponential differential system $\mathcal{O}_U e^g $ with respect to f. We prove that its holomorphic solutions admit representations in terms of period integrals over topological chains with possibly closed support and with rapid decay condition. 
0704.01740	Charged current deep-inelastic scattering at three loops	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:S. Moch, M. Rogal	 Abstract: We derive for deep-inelastic neutrino-proton scattering in the combination nu P - nubar P the perturbative QCD corrections to three loops for the charged current structure functions F_2, F_L and F_3. In leading twist approximation we calculate the first five odd-integer Mellin moments in the case of F_2 and F_L and the first five even-integer moments in the case of F_3. As a new result we obtain the coefficient functions to O(alpha_s^3) while the corresponding anomalous dimensions agree with known results in the literature. 
0704.01741	Detection of a 1258 Hz high-amplitude kilohertz quasi-periodic  oscillation in the ultra-compact X-ray binary 1A 1246-588	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P.G. Jonker, J.J.M. in 't Zand, M. Mendez, M. van der Klis	 Abstract: We have observed the ultra-compact low-mass X-ray binary (LMXB) 1A 1246-588 with the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE). In this manuscript we report the discovery of a kilohertz quasi-periodic oscillation (QPO) in 1A 1246-588. The kilohertz QPO was only detected when the source was in a soft high-flux state reminiscent of the lower banana branch in atoll sources. Only one kilohertz QPO peak is detected at a relatively high frequency of 1258+-2 Hz and at a single trial significance of more than 7 sigma. Kilohertz QPOs with a higher frequency have only been found on two occasions in 4U 0614+09. Furthermore, the frequency is higher than that found for the lower kilohertz QPO in any source, strongly suggesting that the QPO is the upper of the kilohertz QPO pair often found in LMXBs. The full-width at half maximum is 25+-4 Hz, making the coherence the highest found for an upper kilohertz QPO. From a distance estimate of ~6 kpc from a radius expansion burst we derive that 1A 1246-588 is at a persistent flux of ~0.2-0.3 per cent of the Eddington flux, hence 1A 1246-588 is one of the weakest LMXBs for which a kilohertz QPO has been detected. The root-mean-square (rms) amplitude in the 5-60 keV band is 27+-3 per cent, this is the highest for any kilohertz QPO source so far, in line with the general anti-correlation between source luminosity and rms amplitude of the kilohertz QPO peak identified before. Using the X-ray spectral information we produce a colour-colour diagram. The source behaviour in this diagram provides further evidence for the atoll nature of the source. 
0704.01742	Surface gap solitons at a nonlinearity interface	Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)	Authors:Tomas Dohnal, Dmitry Pelinovsky	 Abstract: We demonstrate existence of waves localized at the interface of two nonlinear periodic media with different coefficients of the cubic nonlinearity via the one-dimensional Gross--Pitaevsky equation. We call these waves the surface gap solitons (SGS). In the case of smooth symmetric periodic potentials, we study analytically bifurcations of SGS's from standard gap solitons and determine numerically the maximal jump of the nonlinearity coefficient allowing for the SGS existence. We show that the maximal jump vanishes near the thresholds of bifurcations of gap solitons. In the case of continuous potentials with a jump in the first derivative at the interface, we develop a homotopy method of continuation of SGS families from the solution obtained via gluing of parts of the standard gap solitons and study existence of SGS's in the photonic band gaps. We explain the termination of the SGS families in the interior points of the band gaps from the bifurcation of linear bound states in the continuous non-smooth potentials. 
0704.01743	A Catalogue of Morphologically Classified Galaxies from the Sloan  Digital Sky Survey: North Equatorial Region	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Masataka Fukugita, Osamu Nakamura, Sadanori Okamura, Naoki Yasuda, John C. Barentine, Jon Brinkmann, James E. Gunn, Mike Harvanek, Takashi Ichikawa, Robert H. Lupton, Donald P. Schneider, Michael A. Strauss, Donald G. York	 Abstract: We present a catalogue of morphologically classified bright galaxies in the north equatorial stripe (230 deg$^2$) derived from the Third Data Release of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS). Morphological classification is performed by visual inspection of images in the $g$ band. The catalogue contains 2253 galaxies complete to a magnitude limit of $r=16$ after Galactic extinction correction, selected from 2658 objects that are judged as extended in the photometric catalogue in the same magnitude limit. 1866 galaxies in our catalogue have spectroscopic information. A brief statistical analysis is presented for the frequency of morphological types and mean colours in the catalogue. A visual inspection of the images reveals that the rate of interacting galaxies in the local Universe is approximately 1.5% in the $r\le16$ sample. A verification is made for the photometric catalogue generated by the SDSS, especially as to its bright end completeness. 
0704.01744	Blazar surveys with WMAP and Swift	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. Giommi, M. Capalbi, E. Cavazzuti, S. Colafrancesco, S. Cutini, D. Gasparrini, E. Massaro, P. Padovani, M. Perri, S. Puccetti	 Abstract: We present the preliminary results from two new surveys of blazars that have direct implications on the GLAST detection of extragalactic sources from two different perspectives: microwave selection and a combined deep X-ray/radio selection. The first one is a 41 GHz flux-limited sample extracted from the WMAP 3-yr catalog of microwave point sources. This is a statistically well defined sample of about 200 blazars and radio galaxies, most of which are expected to be detected by GLAST. The second one is a new deep survey of Blazars selected among the radio sources that are spatially coincident with serendipitous sources detected in deep X-ray images (0.3-10 keV) centered on the Gamma Ray Bursts (GRB) discovered by the Swift satellite. This sample is particularly interesting from a statistical viewpoint since a) it is unbiased as GRBs explode at random positions in the sky, b) it is very deep in the X-ray band (\fx \simgt $10^{-15}$ \ergs) with a position accuracy of a few arc-seconds, c) it will cover a fairly large (20-30 square deg.) area of sky, d) it includes all blazars with radio flux (1.4 GHz) larger than 10 mJy, making it approximately two orders of magnitude deeper than the WMAP sample and about one order of magnitude deeper than the deepest existing complete samples of radio selected blazars, and e) it can be used to estimate the amount of unresolved GLAST high latitude gamma-ray background and its anisotropy spectrum. 
0704.01745	I. The mass gap and solution of the quark confinement problem in QCD	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:V. Gogokhia	 Abstract: Using the previously derived confining gluon propagator, the corresponding system of equations determining the quark propagator is derived. The system of equations consists of the Schwinger-Dyson equation for the quark propagator itself, which includes the zero momentum transfer quark-gluon vertex. It is complemented by the Slavnov-Taylor identity for this vertex. The quark equation depends explicitly on the mass gap, determining the scale of the truly nonperturbative dynamics in the QCD ground state. The obtained system of equations is manifestly gauge-invariant, i.e., does not depend explicitly on the gauge-fixing parameter. It is also free from all the types of the perturbative contributions ("contaminations"), which may appear at the fundamental quark-gluon level. 
0704.01746	Tunnelling from black holes and tunnelling into white holes	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Bhramar Chatterjee, A. Ghosh, P. Mitra	 Abstract: Hawking radiation is nowadays being understood as tunnelling through black hole horizons. Here, the extension of the Hamilton-Jacobi approach to tunnelling for non-rotating and rotating black holes in different non-singular coordinate systems not only confirms this quantum emission from black holes but also reveals the new phenomenon of absorption into white holes by quantum mechanical tunnelling. The role of a boundary condition of total absorption or emission is also clarified. 
0704.01747	Solving algebraic equations in roots of unity	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Iskander Aliev, Chris Smyth	 Abstract: This paper is devoted to finding solutions of polynomial equations in roots of unity. It was conjectured by S. Lang and proved by M. Laurent that all such solutions can be described in terms of a finite number of parametric families called maximal torsion cosets. We obtain new explicit upper bounds for the number of maximal torsion cosets on an algebraic subvariety of the complex algebraic $n$-torus ${\mathbb G}_{\rm m}^n$. In contrast to earlier works that give the bounds of polynomial growth in the maximum total degree of defining polynomials, the proofs of our results are constructive. This allows us to obtain a new algorithm for determining maximal torsion cosets on an algebraic subvariety of ${\mathbb G}_{\rm m}^n$. 
0704.01748	Self-Organization applied to Dynamic Network Layout	Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)	Authors:Markus M. Geipel	 Abstract: As networks and their structure have become a major field of research, a strong demand for network visualization has emerged. We address this challenge by formalizing the well established spring layout in terms of dynamic equations. We thus open up the design space for new algorithms. Drawing from the knowledge of systems design, we derive a layout algorithm that remedies several drawbacks of the original spring layout. This new algorithm relies on the balancing of two antagonistic forces. We thus call it {\em arf} for "attractive and repulsive forces". It is, as we claim, particularly suited for a dynamic layout of smaller networks ($n < 10^3$). We back this claim with several application examples from on going complex systems research. 
0704.01749	VIMOS total transmission profiles for broad-band filters	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Mieske, M. Rejkuba, S. Bagnulo, C. Izzo, G. Marconi	 Abstract: VIMOS is a wide-field imager and spectrograph mounted on UT3 at the VLT, whose FOV consists of four 7'x8' quadrants. Here we present the measurements of total transmission profiles -- i.e. the throughput of telescope + instrument -- for the broad band filters U, B, V, R, I, and z for each of its four quadrants. Those measurements can also be downloaded from the public VIMOS web-page. The transmission profiles are compared with previous estimates from the VIMOS consortium. 
0704.01750	Searches for Ultra-Compact Dwarf Galaxies in Galaxy Groups	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:E.A. Evstigneeva, M.J. Drinkwater, R. Jurek, P. Firth, J.B. Jones, M.D. Gregg, S. Phillipps	 Abstract: We present the results of a search for ultra-compact dwarf galaxies (UCDs) in six different galaxy groups: Dorado, NGC1400, NGC0681, NGC4038, NGC4697 and NGC5084. We searched in the apparent magnitude range 17.5 < b_j < 20.5 (except NGC5084: 19.2 < b_j < 21.0). We found 1 definite plus 2 possible UCD candidates in the Dorado group and 2 possible UCD candidates in the NGC1400 group. No UCDs were found in the other groups. We compared these results with predicted luminosities of UCDs in the groups according to the hypothesis that UCDs are globular clusters formed in galaxies. The theoretical predictions broadly agree with the observational results, but deeper surveys are needed to fully test the predictions. 
0704.01751	Information Theoretic Proofs of Entropy Power Inequalities	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Olivier Rioul	 Abstract: While most useful information theoretic inequalities can be deduced from the basic properties of entropy or mutual information, up to now Shannon's entropy power inequality (EPI) is an exception: Existing information theoretic proofs of the EPI hinge on representations of differential entropy using either Fisher information or minimum mean-square error (MMSE), which are derived from de Bruijn's identity. In this paper, we first present an unified view of these proofs, showing that they share two essential ingredients: 1) a data processing argument applied to a covariance-preserving linear transformation; 2) an integration over a path of a continuous Gaussian perturbation. Using these ingredients, we develop a new and brief proof of the EPI through a mutual information inequality, which replaces Stam and Blachman's Fisher information inequality (FII) and an inequality for MMSE by Guo, Shamai and Verd\'u used in earlier proofs. The result has the advantage of being very simple in that it relies only on the basic properties of mutual information. These ideas are then generalized to various extended versions of the EPI: Zamir and Feder's generalized EPI for linear transformations of the random variables, Takano and Johnson's EPI for dependent variables, Liu and Viswanath's covariance-constrained EPI, and Costa's concavity inequality for the entropy power. 
0704.01752	Van der Waals interaction between a microparticle and a single-wall  carbon nanotube	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:E.V. Blagov, G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.M. Mostepanenko	 Abstract: The Lifshitz-type formulas describing the free energy and the force of the van der Waals interaction between an atom (molecule) and a single-wall carbon nanotube are obtained. The single-wall nanotube is considered as a cylindrical sheet carrying a two-dimensional free electron gas with appropriate boundary conditions on the electromagnetic field. The obtained formulas are used to calculate the van der Waals free energy and force between a hydrogen atom (molecule) and single-wall carbon nanotubes of different radia. Comparison studies of the van der Waals interaction of hydrogen atoms with single- and multi-wall carbon nanotubes show that depending on atom-nanotube separation distance the idealization of graphite dielectric permittivity is already applicable to nanotubes with only two or three walls. 
0704.01753	Relativistic corrections for two- and three-body flux tube model	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:F. Buisseret, C. Semay	 Abstract: We generalize the relativistic flux tube model for arbitrary two- or three-body systems. The spin-independent and spin-dependent contributions of the flux tube to the total Hamiltonian are computed in perturbation. In particular, we show that the spin-dependent part exhibits a universal spin-orbit form: It does not depend on the nature of the confined particles. The general equations we present, being well-defined for light particles, can thus be applied to usual as well as exotic hadrons such as hybrid mesons and glueballs. 
0704.01754	The No-Broadcasting Theorem and its Classical Counterpart	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:A. Kalev, I. Hen	 Abstract: Although it is widely accepted that `no-broadcasting' -- the nonclonability of quantum information -- is a fundamental principle of quantum mechanics, an impossibility theorem for the broadcasting of general density matrices has not yet been formulated. In this paper, we present a general proof for the no-broadcasting theorem, which applies to arbitrary density matrices. The proof relies on entropic considerations, and as such can also be directly linked to its classical counterpart, which applies to probabilistic distributions of statistical ensembles. 
0704.01755	Quantum random walks and vanishing of the second Hochschild cohomology	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Debashish Goswami, Lingaraj Sahu	 Abstract: Given a conditionally completely positive map $\mathcal L$ on a unital $\ast$-algebra $\A$, we find an interesting connection between the second Hochschild cohomology of $\A$ with coefficients in the bimodule $E_{\mathcal L}=\B^a(\A \oplus M)$ of adjointable maps, where $M$ is the GNS bimodule of $\mathcal L$, and the possibility of constructing a quantum random walk (in the sense of \cite{AP,LP,L,KBS}) corresponding to $\mathcal L$. 
0704.01756	The Invar Tensor Package	Symbolic Computation (cs.SC)	Authors:Jose M. Martin-Garcia, Renato Portugal, Leon R. U. Manssur	 Abstract: The Invar package is introduced, a fast manipulator of generic scalar polynomial expressions formed from the Riemann tensor of a four-dimensional metric-compatible connection. The package can maximally simplify any polynomial containing tensor products of up to seven Riemann tensors within seconds. It has been implemented both in Mathematica and Maple algebraic systems. 
0704.01757	Towards a Gauge Invariant Scattering Theory of Cylindrical Gravitational  Waves	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Andrea Macrina	 Abstract: In this account we investigate an asymptotically flat space-time geometry. In particular, we focus on a pure gravity model with cylindrical symmetry where no matter fields are included. The Einstein-Rosen metric is introduced and the corresponding Einstein equations are solved. By use of the ADM formalism, we derive the observables of the cylindrical gravitational waves. We conclude with an analysis of the algebra of the observables of the Einstein-Rosen waves. 
0704.01758	On axisymmetric MHD equilibria with incompressible flows under side  conditions	Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)	Authors:G. N. Throumoulopoulos, H. Tasso, G. Poulipoulis	 Abstract: Axisymmetric equilibria with incompressible flows of arbitrary direction are studied in the framework of magnetohydrodynamics under a variety of physically relevant side conditions. To this end a set of pertinent non-linear ODEs are transformed to quasilinear ones and the respective initial value problem is solved numerically with appropriately determined initial values near the magnetic axis. Several equilibria are then constructed surface by surface. The non field aligned flow results in novel configurations with a single magnetic axis, toroidal shell configurations in which the plasma is confined within a couple of magnetic surfaces and double shell-like configurations. In addition, the flow affects the elongation and triangularity of the magnetic surfaces. 
0704.01759	Vertex-algebraic structure of the principal subspaces of certain  A_1^(1)-modules, I: level one case	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Corina Calinescu, James Lepowsky, Antun Milas	 Abstract: This is the first in a series of papers in which we study vertex-algebraic structure of Feigin-Stoyanovsky's principal subspaces associated to standard modules for both untwisted and twisted affine Lie algebras. A key idea is to prove suitable presentations of principal subspaces, without using bases or even ``small'' spanning sets of these spaces. In this paper we prove presentations of the principal subspaces of the basic A_1^(1)-modules. These convenient presentations were previously used in work of Capparelli-Lepowsky-Milas for the purpose of obtaining the classical Rogers-Ramanujan recursion for the graded dimensions of the principal subspaces. 
0704.01760	Galaxy Evolution and Environment	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Pieter van Dokkum, Ryan Quadri	 Abstract: The properties of galaxies are strongly correlated with their environment, with red galaxies dominating galaxy clusters and blue galaxies dominating the general field. However, not all field galaxies are young: studies of the colors, line strengths, and M/L ratios of massive early-type galaxies at 0<z<1.3 show that the most massive galaxies do not seem to care about their surroundings, and have very similar ages irrespective of their environment. There is good evidence that the growth of these galaxies does continue longer in the field than in clusters, via (nearly) dissipationless mergers of already old galaxies. These results are consistent with predictions of recent galaxy formation models, which incorporate AGN feedback to suppress star formation in the most massive halos. Systematic studies of the relation of galaxies with their environment beyond z=1 are difficult, and still somewhat contradictory. Intriguingly both the DEEP2 and VVDS surveys find that the color-density relation disappears at z~1.3, unfortunately just at the point where both surveys become highly incomplete. On the other hand, clustering studies at z~2.5 have shown that red galaxies cluster more strongly than blue galaxies, implying that the color-density relation was already in place at that redshift. 
0704.01761	GLSM's for partial flag manifolds	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:R. Donagi, E. Sharpe	 Abstract: In this paper we outline some aspects of nonabelian gauged linear sigma models. First, we review how partial flag manifolds (generalizing Grassmannians) are described physically by nonabelian gauged linear sigma models, paying attention to realizations of tangent bundles and other aspects pertinent to (0,2) models. Second, we review constructions of Calabi-Yau complete intersections within such flag manifolds, and properties of the gauged linear sigma models. We discuss a number of examples of nonabelian GLSM's in which the Kahler phases are not birational, and in which at least one phase is realized in some fashion other than as a complete intersection, extending previous work of Hori-Tong. We also review an example of an abelian GLSM exhibiting the same phenomenon. We tentatively identify the mathematical relationship between such non-birational phases, as examples of Kuznetsov's homological projective duality. Finally, we discuss linear sigma model moduli spaces in these gauged linear sigma models. We argue that the moduli spaces being realized physically by these GLSM's are precisely Quot and hyperquot schemes, as one would expect mathematically. 
0704.01762	Warm HCN, C2H2, and CO in the disk of GV Tau	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:E. L. Gibb (1), K. A. Van Brunt (1), S. D. Brittain (2), T. W. Rettig (3) ((1) University of Missouri - St. Louis, (2) Clemson University, (3) University of Notre Dame)	 Abstract: We present the first high-resolution, ground-based observations of HCN and C2H2 toward the T Tauri binary star system GV Tau. We detected strong absorption due to HCN nu_3 and weak C2H2 (nu_3 and nu_2 + (nu_4 + nu_5)^0_+) absorption toward the primary (GV Tau S) but not the infrared companion. We also report CO column densities and rotational temperatures, and present abundances relative to CO of HCN/CO ~0.6% and C2H2/CO ~1.2% and an upper limit for CH4/CO < 0.37% toward GV Tau S. Neither HCN nor C2H2 were detected toward the infrared companion and results suggest that abundances may differ between the two sources. 
0704.01763	Towards understanding of birds magnetoreceptor mechanism	Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)	Authors:Ilia A. Solov'yov, Walter Greiner	 Abstract: In the present letter we suggest a new theoretical model for a quantitative description of the magnetoreception mechanism in birds. The considered mechanism involves two types of iron minerals (magnetite and maghemite) which were found in subcellular compartments within sensory dendrites of the upper beak of several bird species. The analysis of forces acting between the iron particles shows that the orientation of the external geomagnetic field can significantly change the probability of the mechanosensitive ion channels opening and closing. The performed theoretical analysis shows that the suggested magnetoreceptor system might be a sensitive biological magnetometer providing an essential part of the magnetic map for navigation. 
0704.01764	Another Riemann-Farey Computation	General Mathematics (math.GM)	Authors:Scott B. Guthery	 Abstract: Another approach to constructing an upper bound for the Riemann-Farey sum is described. 
0704.01765	Spitzer Mid-Infrared Spectroscopy of Infrared Luminous Galaxies at z~2  II: Diagnostics	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Anna Sajina (1), Lin Yan (1), Lee Armus (1), Phil Choi (2), Dario Fadda (3), George Helou (1), Henrik Spoon (4) ((1)Spitzer Science Center, (2) Pomona College, (3) Herschel Science Center, (4) Cornell)	 Abstract: We present mid-IR spectral decomposition of a sample of 48 Spitzer-selected ULIRGs spanning z~1-3 and likely L_IR~10^12-10^13Lsun. Our study aims at quantifying the star-formation and AGN processes in these sources which recent results suggest have evolved strongly between the observed epoch and today. To do this, we study the mid-IR contribution of PAH emission, continuum, and extinction. About 3/4 of our sample are continuum- (i.e. AGN) dominated sources, but ~60% of these show PAH emission, suggesting the presence of star-formation activity. These sources have redder mid-IR colors than typical optically-selected quasars. About 25% of our sample have strong PAH emission, but none are likely to be pure starbursts as reflected in their relatively high 5um hot dust continua. However, their steep 30um-to-14um slopes suggest that star-formation might dominate the total infrared luminosity. Six of our z~2 sources have EW6.2>~0.3um and L_14um>~10^12Lsun (implying L_IR>~10^13Lsun). At these luminosities, such high EW6.2 ULIRGs do not exist in the local Universe. We find a median optical depth at 9.7um of <tau_9.7>=1.4. This is consistent with local IRAS-selected ULIRGs, but differs from early results on SCUBA-selected z~2 ULIRGs. Similar to local ULIRGs about 25% of our sample show extreme obscuration (tau_9.7>~3) suggesting buried nuclei. In general, we find that our sources are similar to local ULIRGs, but are an order of magnitude more luminous. It is not clear whether our z~2 ULIRGs are simply scaled-up versions of local ULIRGs, or subject to fundamentally different physical processes. 
0704.01766	Jeans instability of a galactic disk embedded in a live dark halo	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:O. Esquivel, B. Fuchs	 Abstract: We investigate the Jeans instability of a galactic disk embedded in a dynamically responsive dark halo. It is shown that the disk-halo system becomes nominally Jeans unstable. On small scales the instability is suppressed, if the Toomre stability index Q_T is higher than a certain threshold, but on large scales the Jeans instability sets invariably in. However, using a simple self-consistent disk-halo model it is demonstrated that this occurs on scales which are much larger than the system so that this is indeed only a nominal effect. From a practical point of view the Jeans instability of galactic disks is not affected by a live dark halo. 
0704.01767	The multiplicity of planet host stars - New low-mass companions to  planet host stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Mugrauer, A. Seifahrt, R. Neuhaeuser	 Abstract: We present new results from our ongoing multiplicity study of exoplanet host stars, carried out with the infrared camera SofI at ESO-NTT. We have identified new low mass companions to the planet host stars HD101930 and HD65216. HD101930AB is a wide binary systems composed of the planet host star HD101930A and its companion HD101930B which is a M0 to M1 dwarf with a mass of about 0.7Msun separated from the primary by ~73arcsec (2200AU projected separation). HD65216 forms a hierarchical triple system, with a projected separation of 253AU (angular separation of about 7arcsec) between the planet host star HD65216A and its close binary companion HD65216BC, whose two components are separated by only ~0.17arcsec (6AU of projected separation). Two VLT-NACO images separated by 3 years confirm that this system is co-moving to the planet host star. The infrared photometry of HD65216B and C is consistent with a M7 to M8 (0.089Msun), and a L2 to L3 dwarf (0.078Msun), respectively, both close to the sub-stellar limit. An infrared spectrum with VLT-ISAAC of the pair HD65216BC, even though not resolved spatially, confirms this late spectral type. Furthermore, we present H- and K-band ISAAC infrared spectra of HD16141B, the recently detected co-moving companion of the planet host star HD16141A. The infrared spectroscopy as well as the apparent infrared photometry of HD16141B are both fully consistent with a M2 to M3 dwarf located at the distance of the planet host star. 
0704.01768	Assessment and Propagation of Input Uncertainty in Tree-based Option  Pricing Models	Computational Engineering, Finance, and Science (cs.CE)	Authors:Henryk Gzyl, German Molina, Enrique ter Horst	 Abstract: This paper aims to provide a practical example on the assessment and propagation of input uncertainty for option pricing when using tree-based methods. Input uncertainty is propagated into output uncertainty, reflecting that option prices are as unknown as the inputs they are based on. Option pricing formulas are tools whose validity is conditional not only on how close the model represents reality, but also on the quality of the inputs they use, and those inputs are usually not observable. We provide three alternative frameworks to calibrate option pricing tree models, propagating parameter uncertainty into the resulting option prices. We finally compare our methods with classical calibration-based results assuming that there is no options market established. These methods can be applied to pricing of instruments for which there is not an options market, as well as a methodological tool to account for parameter and model uncertainty in theoretical option pricing. 
0704.01769	Subdiffusion and weak ergodicity breaking in the presence of a reactive  boundary	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Michael A. Lomholt, Irwin M. Zaid, Ralf Metzler	 Abstract: We derive the boundary condition for a subdiffusive particle interacting with a reactive boundary with finite reaction rate. Molecular crowding conditions, that are found to cause subdiffusion of larger molecules in biological cells, are shown to effect long-tailed distributions with identical exponent for both the unbinding times from the boundary to the bulk and the rebinding times from the bulk. This causes a weak ergodicity breaking: typically, an individual particle either stays bound or remains in the bulk for very long times. We discuss why this may be beneficial for in vivo gene regulation by DNA-binding proteins, whose typical concentrations are nanomolar 
0704.01770	Satellites of Simulated Galaxies: survival, merging, and their relation  to the dark and stellar halos	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:L. V. Sales, J. F. Navarro, M. G. Abadi, M. Steinmetz	 Abstract: We study the population of satellite galaxies formed in a suite of N-body/gasdynamical simulations of galaxy formation in a LCDM universe. We find little spatial or kinematic bias between the dark matter and the satellite population. The velocity dispersion of the satellites is a good indicator of the virial velocity of the halo: \sigma_{sat}/V_{vir}=0.9 +/- 0.2. Applied to the Milky Way and M31 this gives V_{vir}^{MW}=109 +/- 22$ km/s and V_{vir}^{M31} = 138 +/- 35 km/s, respectively, substantially lower than the rotation speed of their disk components. The detailed kinematics of simulated satellites and dark matter are also in good agreement. By contrast, the stellar halo of the simulated galaxies is kinematically and spatially distinct from the population of surviving satellites. This is because the survival of a satellite depends on mass and on time of accretion; surviving satellites are biased toward low-mass systems that have been recently accreted by the galaxy. Our results support recent proposals for the origin of the systematic differences between stars in the Galactic halo and in Galactic satellites: the elusive ``building blocks'' of the Milky Way stellar halo were on average more massive, and were accreted (and disrupted) earlier than the population of dwarfs that has survived self-bound until the present. 
0704.01771	Fractional Generalization of Kac Integral	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Vasily E. Tarasov, George M. Zaslavsky	 Abstract: Generalization of the Kac integral and Kac method for paths measure based on the Levy distribution has been used to derive fractional diffusion equation. Application to nonlinear fractional Ginzburg-Landau equation is discussed. 
0704.01772	Analysis of the Velocity Field of F and G Dwarfs in the Solar  Neighborhood as a Function of Age	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Vadim V. Bobylev, Anisa T. Bajkova	 Abstract: The space velocities from the catalog of Nordstrom et al. (2004) are used to trace variations of a number of kinematic parameters of single F and G dwarfs as a function of their age. The vertex deviation of disk stars increases from 7+- 1 to 15+-2 degrees as the mean age decreases from 4.3 to 1.5 Gyr. The two-dimensional velocity distributions in the UV, UW, and VW planes are analyzed. The evolution of the main peaks in the velocity distributions can be followed to an average age of approximately 9 Gyr. We find that: (1) in the distributions of the UV velocity components, stars of different types are concentrated toward several stable peaks (the Hyades, Pleiades, and Sirius Cluster), suggesting that the stars belonging to these formations did not form simultaneously; (2) the peak associated with the Hyades Cluster dominates in all age intervals; and (3) the Hyades peak is strongest for stars with an average age of 1.5 Gyr, suggesting that this peak contains a considerable fraction of stars from the Hyades cluster. The age dependences of the kinematic parameters exhibit a break near 4.5 Gyr, which can be explained as an effect of the different contributions of stars of the thin and thick disks. The Stromberg relation yields a solar LSR velocity of V_{\odot LSR} = (8.7, 6.2, 7.2)+- (0.5, 2.2, 0.8) km/s. 
0704.01773	Cosmic Ménage à Trois: The Origin of Satellite Galaxies On Extreme  Orbits	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:L. V. Sales, J. F. Navarro, M. G. Abadi, M. Steinmetz	 Abstract: We examine the orbits of satellite galaxies identified in a suite of N-body/gasdynamical simulations of the formation of $L_*$ galaxies in a LCDM universe. Most satellites follow conventional orbits; after turning around, they accrete into their host halo and settle on orbits whose apocentric radii are steadily eroded by dynamical friction. However, a number of outliers are also present, we find that ~1/3 of satellites identified at $z=0$ are on unorthodox orbits, with apocenters that exceed their turnaround radii. This population of satellites on extreme orbits consists typically of the faint member of a satellite pair that has been ejected onto a highly-energetic orbit during its first approach to the primary. Since the concurrent accretion of multiple satellite systems is a defining feature of hierarchical models of galaxy formation, we speculate that this three-body ejection mechanism may be the origin of (i) some of the newly discovered high-speed satellites around M31 (such as Andromeda XIV); (ii) some of the distant fast-receding Local Group members, such as Leo I; and (iii) the oddly isolated dwarf spheroidals Cetus and Tucana in the outskirts of the Local Group. Our results suggest that care must be exercised when using the orbits of the most weakly bound satellites to place constraints on the total mass of the Local Group. 
0704.01774	Auxiliary Field Diffusion Monte Carlo calculation of nuclei with A<40  with tensor interactions	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:S. Gandolfi, F. Pederiva, S. Fantoni, K.E. Schmidt	 Abstract: We calculate the ground-state energy of 4He, 8He, 16O, and 40Ca using the auxiliary field diffusion Monte Carlo method in the fixed phase approximation and the Argonne v6' interaction which includes a tensor force. Comparison of our light nuclei results to those of Green's function Monte Carlo calculations shows the accuracy of our method for both open and closed shell nuclei. We also apply it to 16O and 40Ca to show that quantum Monte Carlo methods are now applicable to larger nuclei. 
0704.01775	Origin of Discrepancies in Inelastic Electron Tunneling Spectra of  Molecular Junctions	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Lam H. Yu, Christopher D. Zangmeister, James G. Kushmerick	 Abstract: We report inelastic electron tunneling spectroscopy (IETS) of multilayer molecular junctions with and without incorporated metal nano-particles. The incorporation of metal nanoparticles into our devices leads to enhanced IET intensity and a modified line-shape for some vibrational modes. The enhancement and line-shape modification are both the result of a low lying hybrid metal nanoparticle-molecule electronic level. These observations explain the apparent discrepancy between earlier IETS measurements of alkane thiolate junctions by Kushmerick \emph{et al.} [Nano Lett. \textbf{4}, 639 (2004)] and Wang \emph{et al.} [Nano Lett. \textbf{4}, 643 (2004)]. 
0704.01776	Photoproduction of pi0-mesons off protons from the Delta(1232) region to  E(gamma) = 3 GeV	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:H. van Pee, O. Bartholomy, V. Crede, for the CB-ELSA Collaboration	 Abstract: Photoproduction of pi0 mesons was studied with the Crystal-Barrel detector at ELSA for incident energies from 300 MeV to 3 GeV. Differential cross sections d sigma /d Omega, d sigma/d t, and the total cross section are presented. For E(gamma) < 3 GeV, the angular distributions agree well with the SAID parametrization. At photon energies above 1.5 GeV, a strong forward peaking indicates t-channel exchange to be the dominant process. The rapid variations of the cross section with energy and angle indicate production of resonances. An interpretation of the data within the Bonn-Gatchina partial wave analysis is briefly discussed. 
0704.01777	Magnetic and axial-vector transitions of the baryon antidecuplet	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:H.-Ch. Kim, Gh.-S. Yang, K. Goeke	 Abstract: We report the recent results of the magnetic transitions and axial-vector transitions of the baryon antidecuplet within the framework of the chiral quark-soliton model. The dynamical model parameters are fixed by experimental data for the magnetic moments of the baryon octet, for the hyperon semileptonic decay constants, and for the singlet axial-vector constant. The transition magnetic moments $\mu_{\Lambda\Sigma}$ and $\mu_{N\Delta}$ are well reproduced and other octet-decuplet and octet-antidecuplet transitions are predicted. In particular, the present calculation of $\mu_{\Sigma\Sigma^*}$ is found to be below the upper bound $0.82\mu_N$ that the SELEX collaboration measured very recently. The results explains consistently the recent findings of a new $N^*$ resonance from the GRAAL and Tohoku LNS group. We also obtain the transition axial-vector constants for the $\Theta^+\to KN$ from which the decay width of the $\Theta^{+}$ pentaquark baryon is determined as a function of the pion-nucleon sigma term $\Sigma_{\pi N}$. We investigate the dependence of the decay width of the $\Theta^{+}$ on the $g_{A}^{(0)}$, with the $g_{A}^{(0)}$ varied within the range of the experimental uncertainty. We show that a small decay width of the $\Theta^{+}\to KN$, i.e. $\Gamma_{\Theta KN} \leq 1$ MeV, is compatible with the values of all known semileptonic decays with the generally accepted value of $g_{A}^{(0)} \approx 0.3$ for the proton. 
0704.01778	Quenched limits for transient, zero speed one-dimensional random walk in  random environment	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Jonathon Peterson, Ofer Zeitouni	 Abstract: We consider a nearest-neighbor, one dimensional random walk $\{X_n\}_{n\geq0}$ in a random i.i.d. environment, in the regime where the walk is transient but with zero speed, so that $X_n$ is of order $n^s$ for some $s<1$. Under the quenched law (i.e., conditioned on the environment), we show that no limit laws are possible: There exist sequences $\{n_k\}$ and $\{x_k\}$ depending on the environment only, such that $X_{n_k}-x_k=o(\log n_k)^2$ (a localized regime). On the other hand, there exist sequences $\{t_m\}$ and $\{s_m\}$ depending on the environment only, such that $\log s_m/\log t_m\to s<1$ and $P_{\omega}(X_{t_m}/s_m\leq x)\to1/2$ for all $x>0$ and $\to0$ for $x\leq0$ (a spread out regime). 
0704.01779	Reciprocal transformations and flat metrics on Hurwitz spaces	Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)	Authors:S. Abenda, T. Grava	 Abstract: We consider hydrodynamic systems which possess a local Hamiltonian structure of Dubrovin-Novikov type. To such a system there are also associated an infinite number of nonlocal Hamiltonian structures. We give necessary and sufficient conditions so that, after a nonlinear transformation of the independent variables, the reciprocal system still possesses a local Hamiltonian structure of Dubrovin-Novikov type. We show that, under our hypotheses, bi-hamiltonicity is preserved by the reciprocal transformation. Finally we apply such results to reciprocal systems of genus g Whitham-KdV modulation equations. 
0704.01780	HS1857+5144: A hot and young pre-cataclysmic variable	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Aungwerojwit, B. T. Gaensicke, P. Rodriguez-Gil, H.-J. Hagen, O. Giannakis, C. Papadimitriou, C. Allende Prieto, D. Engels	 Abstract: We report the discovery of a new white dwarf/M dwarf binary, HS1857+5144, identified in the Hamburg Quasar Survey (HQS). Time-resolved optical spectroscopy and photometry were carried out to determine the properties of this new cataclysmic variable progenitor pre-CV). The light curves of HS1857+5144 display a sinusoidal variation with a period of Porb=383.52 min and peak-to-peak amplitudes of 0.7 mag and 1.1 mag in the B-band and R-band, respectively. The large amplitude of the brightness variation results from a reflection effect on the heated inner hemisphere of the companion star, suggesting a very high temperature of the white dwarf. Our radial velocity study confirms the photometric period as the orbital period of the system. A model atmosphere fit to the spectrum of the white dwarf obtained at minimum light provides limits to its mass and temperature of Mwd=~0.6-1.0 Msun and Twd=~70000-100000 K, respectively. The detection of HeII 4686 absorption classifies the primary star of HS1857+5144 as a DAO white dwarf. Combining the results from our spectroscopy and photometry, we estimate the mass of the companion star and the binary inclination to be Msec=~0.15-0.30 Msun and i=~45-55 deg, respectively. We classify HS1857+5144 as one of the youngest pre-CV known to date. The cooling age of the white dwarf suggests that the present system has just emerged from a common envelope phase ~10^5 yr ago. HS1857+5144 will start mass transfer within or below the 2-3h period gap. 
0704.01781	$^{10}$Li spectrum from $^{11}$Li fragmentation	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:G. Blanchon (INFN and Physics Department, Pisa), A. Bonaccorso (INFN and Physics Department, Pisa), D.M. Brink (Oxford University), N. Vinh Mau (IPN, Orsay)	 Abstract: A recently developed time dependent model for the excitation of a nucleon from a bound state to a continuum resonant state in the system n+core is applied to the study of the population of the low energy continuum of the unbound $^{10}$Li system obtained from $^{11}$Li fragmentation. Comparison of the model results to new data from the GSI laboratory suggests that the reaction mechanism is dominated by final state effects rather than by the sudden process, but for the population of the l=0 virtual state, in which case the two mechanisms give almost identical results. There is also, for the first time, a clear evidence for the population of a d$_{5/2}$ resonance in $^{10}$Li. 
0704.01782	Asymptotics of the Euler number of bipartite graphs	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Richard Ehrenborg, Yossi Farjoun	 Abstract: We define the Euler number of a bipartite graph on $n$ vertices to be the number of labelings of the vertices with $1,2,...,n$ such that the vertices alternate in being local maxima and local minima. We reformulate the problem of computing the Euler number of certain subgraphs of the Cartesian product of a graph $G$ with the path $P_m$ in terms of self adjoint operators. The asymptotic expansion of the Euler number is given in terms of the eigenvalues of the associated operator. For two classes of graphs, the comb graphs and the Cartesian product $P_2 \Box P_m$, we numerically solve the eigenvalue problem. 
0704.01783	Unicast and Multicast Qos Routing with Soft Constraint Logic Programming	Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)	Authors:Stefano Bistarelli, Ugo Montanari, Francesca Rossi, Francesco Santini	 Abstract: We present a formal model to represent and solve the unicast/multicast routing problem in networks with Quality of Service (QoS) requirements. To attain this, first we translate the network adapting it to a weighted graph (unicast) or and-or graph (multicast), where the weight on a connector corresponds to the multidimensional cost of sending a packet on the related network link: each component of the weights vector represents a different QoS metric value (e.g. bandwidth, cost, delay, packet loss). The second step consists in writing this graph as a program in Soft Constraint Logic Programming (SCLP): the engine of this framework is then able to find the best paths/trees by optimizing their costs and solving the constraints imposed on them (e.g. delay < 40msec), thus finding a solution to QoS routing problems. Moreover, c-semiring structures are a convenient tool to model QoS metrics. At last, we provide an implementation of the framework over scale-free networks and we suggest how the performance can be improved. 
0704.01784	Zero point energy on extra dimension: Noncommutative Torus	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:S.Fabi, B.Harms, G.Karatheodoris	 Abstract: In this paper we calculate the zero point energy density experienced by observers on M^4 due to a massless scalar field defined throughout M^4 x T^2_F, where T^2_F are fuzzy extra dimensions. Using the Green's function approach we calculate the energy density for the commutative torus and the fuzzy torus. We calculate then the energy density for the fuzzy torus using the Hamiltonian approach. Agreement is shown between Green's function and Hamiltonian approaches. 
0704.01785	Three-body collisions in Boltzmann-Uehling-Uhlenbeck theory	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:A.B. Larionov, O. Buss, K. Gallmeister, U. Mosel	 Abstract: Aiming at a microscopic description of heavy ion collisions in the beam energy region of about 10 A GeV, we extend the Giessen Boltzmann-Uehling-Uhlenbeck (GiBUU) transport model by including a relativistic mean field, in-medium baryon-baryon cross sections and three-body collisions. The model is then compared with experimental data for central Au+Au collisions at 2-10 A GeV and central Pb+Pb collisions at 30 and 40 A GeV on the proton rapidity spectra, the midrapidity yields of $\pi^+$, $K^\pm$ and $(\Lambda+\Sigma^0)$, and the transverse mass spectra of $\pi^\pm$ and $K^\pm$. The three-body collisions increase the inverse slope parameters of the hadron $m_\perp$-spectra to a good agreement with the data. 
0704.01786	Learning more from the Lorentz transformations	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Stefan Popescu, Bernhard Rothenstein	 Abstract: Admitting the validity of Lorentz transformations for the space as time coordinates of the same event we derive their differential form in order to underline the correct prerequisites for the application of time and length contraction or dilation effects. Furthermore we quantify the simultaneity error occurring in the relativity theory. Having done this, we analyse the root cause of these effects and identify it with a finite phase velocity associated with the moving frame. We define this phase velocity by analogy to the de Broglie wave associated with a moving particle. Based on this construct we demonstrate that the phase of the de Broglie waves further extended for stationary particles is a relativistic invariant being the same for all corresponding observers. Also the phase of the electromagnetic waves transporting energy at light speed is a relativistic invariant. Therefore the universe and its matter / energy may be seen as a superposition of waves propagating such that their phase is the same for all corresponding observers. The wave phase may replace the time as an invariant and universal reference. 
0704.01787	On the Mapping of Time-Dependent Densities onto Potentials in Quantum  Mechanics	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Roi Baer	 Abstract: The mapping of time-dependent densities on potentials in quantum mechanics is critically examined. The issue is of significance ever since Runge and Gross (Phys. Rev. Lett. 52, 997 (1984)) established the uniqueness of the mapping, forming a theoretical basis for time-dependent density functional theory. We argue that besides existence (so called v-representability) and uniqueness there is an important question of stability and chaos. Studying a 2-level system we find innocent, almost constant densities that cannot be constructed from any potential (non-existence). We further show via a Lyapunov analysis that the mapping of densities on potentials has chaotic regions in this case. In real space the situation is more subtle. V-representability is formally assured but the mapping is often chaotic making the actual construction of the potential almost impossible. The chaotic nature of the mapping, studied for the first time here, has serious consequences regarding the possibility of using TDDFT in real-time settings. 
0704.01788	New Jarlskog determinant from Physics above the GUT Scal	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Bipin Singh Koranga, S. Uma Sankar (Indian Institute of Technology Bombay)	 Abstract: We study the Planck scale effects on Jarlskog determinant. Quantum gravitational (Planck scale) effects lead to an effective SU(2)_{L}\times U(1) invariant dimension-5 Lagrangian involving neutrino and Higgs fields, which gives rise to additional terms in neutrino mass matrix on electroweak symmetry breaking. We assume that gravitational interaction is flavor blind and compute the Jarlskog determinant due to the Planck scale effects. In the case of neutrino sector, the strength of CP violation is measured by Jarlskog determinant. In this paper, we assume CP violation arise from Planck scale effects. We applied our approach to study Jarlskog determinant due to the Planck scale effects. 
0704.01789	Generalized Smirnov statistics and the distribution of prime factors	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Kevin Ford	 Abstract: We apply recent bounds of the author (math.PR/0609224) for generalized Smirnov statistics to the distribution of integers whose prime factors satisfy certain systems of inequalities. 
0704.01790	Models of Opinion Formation: Influence of Opinion Leaders	Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO)	Authors:Nino Boccara	 Abstract: This paper studies the evolution of the distribution of opinions in a population of individuals in which there exist two distinct subgroups of highly-committed, well-connected opinion leaders endowed with a strong convincing power. Each individual, located at a vertex of a directed graph, is characterized by her name, the list of people she is interacting with, her level of awareness, and her opinion. Various temporal evolutions according to different local rules are compared in order to find under which conditions the formation of strongly polarized subgroups, each adopting the opinion of one of the two groups of opinion leaders, is favored. 
0704.01791	Chiral Mechanisms Leading to Orbital Quantum Structures in the Nucleon	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Dennis Sivers	 Abstract: Color confinement and chiral symmetry specify some important territory for the study of hadronic physics. Any hadron can be defined as a color-singlet composite system of qurks and gluons, the fundamental fields of qcd, while the landscape of the hadronic spectrum is dominated by the fact that two quark flavors, u and d, are characterized by masses small compared to the fundamental scale of this theory. Measurements sensitive to the orbital angular momenta of the color constituents of the nucleon display the interplay of chiral dynamics and confinement in a unique manner. This pageant can be explored by an evaluation, within the context of the Georgi-Manohar chiral quark model, of the normalization of the orbital structure functions and the normalization of the Boer-Mulders functions for different quark flavors. The resolution structures in the chiral quark model represent an evaluation of Collins functions for a confined system defined by the quantum numbers of the nucleon in the constituent quark model. The orbital structure functions for antiquarks can also be specified within the basic framework of this approach while the normalization of the gluon orbital structure function requires some additional assumptions. 
0704.01792	Quantum control and entanglement using periodic driving fields	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:C.E. Creffield	 Abstract: We propose a scheme for producing directed motion in a lattice system by applying a periodic driving potential. By controlling the dynamics by means of the effect known as coherent destruction of tunneling, we demonstrate a novel ratchet-like effect that enables particles to be coherently manipulated and steered without requiring local control. Entanglement between particles can also be controllably generated, which points to the attractive possibility of using these technique for quantum information processing. 
0704.01793	Intrinsic ripples in graphene	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:A. Fasolino, J. H. Los, M. I. Katsnelson	 Abstract: The stability of two-dimensional (2D) layers and membranes is subject of a long standing theoretical debate. According to the so called Mermin-Wagner theorem, long wavelength fluctuations destroy the long-range order for 2D crystals. Similarly, 2D membranes embedded in a 3D space have a tendency to be crumpled. These dangerous fluctuations can, however, be suppressed by anharmonic coupling between bending and stretching modes making that a two-dimensional membrane can exist but should present strong height fluctuations. The discovery of graphene, the first truly 2D crystal and the recent experimental observation of ripples in freely hanging graphene makes these issues especially important. Beside the academic interest, understanding the mechanisms of stability of graphene is crucial for understanding electronic transport in this material that is attracting so much interest for its unusual Dirac spectrum and electronic properties. Here we address the nature of these height fluctuations by means of straightforward atomistic Monte Carlo simulations based on a very accurate many-body interatomic potential for carbon. We find that ripples spontaneously appear due to thermal fluctuations with a size distribution peaked around 70 \AA which is compatible with experimental findings (50-100 \AA) but not with the current understanding of stability of flexible membranes. This unexpected result seems to be due to the multiplicity of chemical bonding in carbon. 
0704.01794	Counting and manipulating single electrons using a carbon nanotube  transistor	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:An. Gruneis, M.J. Esplandiu, D. Garcia-Sanchez, A. Bachtold	 Abstract: We report on the electric measurements of an individual Au nanoparticle with an ultra-high contact resistance of about $10^{19} \Omega$. The high-impedance measurements have been carried out by counting the electrons that are transferred onto the particle. In order to do this, a carbon nanotube is used as the electrode for the supply of electrons but also as the detector of the charge transfer. Measurements using single-electron detection allow us to determine the separation between the electron states in the Au nanoparticle, which is about 4 meV, consistent with the charging energy of the particle. Single-electron detection with nanotubes offers great promise for the study of electron transfer in highly resistive molecular systems. 
0704.01795	Le module dendriforme sur le groupe cyclique	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Frédéric Chapoton (ICJ)	 Abstract: The structure of anticyclic operad on the Dendriform operad defines in particular a matrix of finite order acting on the vector space spanned by planar binary trees. We compute its characteristic polynomial and propose a (compatible) conjecture for the characteristic polynomial of the Coxeter transformation for the Tamari lattice, which is mostly a square root of this matrix. 
0704.01796	Representation Theorems for Quadratic ${\cal F}$-Consistent Nonlinear  Expectations	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Ying Hu (IRMAR), Jin Ma (Department of Mathematics), Shige Peng (Institute of Mathematics), Song Yao (Department of Mathematics)	 Abstract: In this paper we extend the notion of ``filtration-consistent nonlinear expectation" (or "${\cal F}$-consistent nonlinear expectation") to the case when it is allowed to be dominated by a $g$-expectation that may have a quadratic growth. We show that for such a nonlinear expectation many fundamental properties of a martingale can still make sense, including the Doob-Meyer type decomposition theorem and the optional sampling theorem. More importantly, we show that any quadratic ${\cal F}$-consistent nonlinear expectation with a certain domination property must be a quadratic $g$-expectation. The main contribution of this paper is the finding of the domination condition to replace the one used in all the previous works, which is no longer valid in the quadratic case. We also show that the representation generator must be deterministic, continuous, and actually must be of the simple form. 
0704.01797	Film Thickness Changes in EHD Sliding Contacts Lubricated by a Fatty  Alcohol	Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)	Authors:Kazuyuki Yagi (LaMCoS), Philippe Vergne (LaMCoS)	 Abstract: This paper describes the appearance of abnormal film thickness features formed in elastohydrodynamic contacts lubricated by a fatty alcohol. Experiments were conducted by varying the slide to roll ratio between a steel ball and a glass disk in a ball-on-disk type device. Lauric alcohol was used as lubricant and film thickness was measured in the contact area by optical interferometry. Experimental results showed that the film thickness distributions under pure rolling conditions remained classical whereas the film shape changed when the slide to roll ratio was increased. The thickness in the central contact area increased and in the same time inlet and exit film thicknesses were modified. In addition, the film shapes observed when the ball surface was moving faster than the disk one and those obtained in the opposite case were different, i.e. when opposite signs but equal absolute values of the slide to roll ratio were applied. 
0704.01798	A unified shear-thinning treatment of both film thickness and traction  in EHD	Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)	Authors:Scott Bair, Philippe Vergne (LaMCoS), Michel Querry (LaMCoS)	 Abstract: A conclusive demonstration has been provided that the nature of the shear-thinning, that affects both film thickness and traction in EHL contacts, follows the ordinary power-law rule that has been described by many empirical models of which Carreau is but one example. This was accomplished by accurate measurements in viscometers of the shear response of a PAO that possesses a very low critical stress for shear-thinning and accurate measurements in-contact of film thickness and traction under conditions which accentuate the shear-thinning effect. The in-contact central film thickness and traction were entirely predictable from the rheological properties obtained from viscometers using simple calculations. These data should be invaluable to researchers endeavoring to accurately simulate Hertz zone behavior since the shear-thinning rheology is extensively characterized and accurate in-contact data are available to test. In addition, a new model has been introduced that may be useful for the rheological characterization of mixtures. 
0704.01799	Super Low Traction under EHD and Mixed Lubrication Regimes	Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)	Authors:Philippe Vergne (LaMCoS)	 Abstract: After the pioneered experimental works on superlubricity by Martin et al. on MoS2 [1], Hirano et al. on tungsten and silicon [2] and the further confirmation by Dienwiebel et al. on graphite [3], many groups around the word investigated the occurrence of near frictionless sliding contacts. This large mobilization of tribologists, material sciences specialists and physicists has lead to emerging solutions involving new materials and coatings, the most promising being carbon based like graphite, diamond, carbon composites or diamond-like-carbons. Some of them are currently used in practical applications. The situation is different especially in EHL: the highest friction coefficients are close to 10% when traction fluids are involved, i.e. fluids that have especially designed to transmit the highest friction, and they vary within 3-6% for the rest of lubricants. The range of variation is consequently very narrow and these typical values are really low compared to those obtained in dry contacts: as a consequence the gain expected from a super low traction regime in lubrication will be probably more limited, especially in the case of experiments conducted at the meso or macro scales. This weak perspective could be one explanation on the relatively low number of articles in recent literature dealing with lubricated superlubricity in the above conditions. 
0704.01800	Phenomenology with Massive Neutrinos	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:M.C. Gonzalez-Garcia, Michele Maltoni	 Abstract: The current status and some perspectives of the phenomenology of massive neutrinos is reviewed. We start with the phenomenology of neutrino oscillations in vacuum and in matter. We summarize the results of neutrino experiments using solar, atmospheric, reactor and accelerator neutrino beams. We update the leptonic parameters derived from the three-neutrino oscillation interpretation of this data. We describe the method and present results on our understanding of the solar and atmospheric neutrino fluxes by direct extraction from the corresponding neutrino event rates. We present some tests of different forms of new physics which induce new sources of leptonic flavor transitions in vacuum and in matter which can be performed with the present neutrino data. The aim and potential of future neutrino experiments and facilities to further advance in these fronts is also briefly summarized. Last, the implications of the LSND observations are discussed, and the status of extended models which could accommodate all flavor-mixing signals is presented in the light of the recent results from MiniBooNE. 
0704.01801	A calculation of the shear viscosity in SU(3) gluodynamics	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:Harvey B. Meyer	 Abstract: We perform a lattice Monte-Carlo calculation of the two-point functions of the energy-momentum tensor at finite temperature in the SU(3) gauge theory. Unprecedented precision is obtained thanks to a multi-level algorithm. The lattice operators are renormalized non-perturbatively and the classical discretization errors affecting the correlators are corrected for. A robust upper bound for the shear viscosity to entropy density ratio is derived, eta/s < 1.0, and our best estimate is eta/s = 0.134(33) at T=1.65Tc under the assumption of smoothness of the spectral function in the low-frequency region. 
0704.01802	A Way to Dynamically Overcome the Cosmological Constant Problem	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Denis Comelli	 Abstract: The Cosmological Constant problem can be solved once we require that the full standard Einstein Hilbert lagrangian, gravity plus matter, is multiplied by a total derivative. We analyze such a picture writing the total derivative as the covariant gradient of a new vector field (b_mu). The dynamics of this b_mu field can play a key role in the explanation of the present cosmological acceleration of the Universe. 
0704.01803	Regularity properties in the classification program for separable  amenable C*-algebras	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:George A. Elliott, Andrew S. Toms	 Abstract: We report on recent progress in the program to classify separable amenable C*-algebras. Our emphasis is on the newly apparent role of regularity properties such as finite decomposition rank, strict comparison of positive elements, and Z-stability, and on the importance of the Cuntz semigroup. We include a brief history of the program's successes since 1989, a more detailed look at the Villadsen-type algebras which have so dramatically changed the landscape, and a collection of announcements on the structure and properties of the Cuntz semigroup. 
0704.01804	Equation of state of atomic systems beyond s-wave determined by the  lowest order constrained variational method: Large scattering length limit	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Ryan M. Kalas, D. Blume	 Abstract: Dilute Fermi systems with large s-wave scattering length a_s exhibit universal properties if the interparticle spacing r_o greatly exceeds the range of the underlying two-body interaction potential. In this regime, r_o is the only relevant length scale and observables such as the energy per particle depend only on r_o (or, equivalently, the energy E_{FG} of the free Fermi gas). This paper investigates Bose and Fermi systems with non-vanishing angular momentum l using the lowest order constrained variational method. We focus on the regime where the generalized scattering length becomes large and determine the relevant length scales. For Bose gases with large generalized scattering lengths, we obtain simple expressions for the energy per particle in terms of a l-dependent length scale \xi_l, which depends on the range of the underlying two-body potential and the average interparticle spacing. We discuss possible implications for dilute two-component Fermi systems with finite l. Furthermore, we determine the equation of state of liquid and gaseous bosonic helium. 
0704.01805	On Charge Conservation and The Equivalence Principle in the  Noncommutative Spacetime	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Youngone Lee	 Abstract: We investigate one of the consequences of the twisted Poincare symmetry. We derive the charge conservation law and show that the equivalence principle is satisfied in the canonical noncommutative spacetime. We applied the twisted Poincare symmetry to the Weinberg's analysis. To this end, we generalize our earlier construction of the twisted S matrix \cite{Bu}, which apply the noncommutativity to the fourier modes, to the massless fields of integer spins. The transformation formula for the twisted S matrix for the massless fields of integer spin has been obtained. For massless fields of spin 1, we obtain the conservation of charge, and the universality of coupling constant for massless fields of spin 2, which can be interpreted as the equality of gravitational mass and inertial mass, i.e., the equivalence principle. 
0704.01806	Critical Scaling of Shear Viscosity at the Jamming Transition	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Peter Olsson, S. Teitel	 Abstract: We carry out numerical simulations to study transport behavior about the jamming transition of a model granular material in two dimensions at zero temperature. Shear viscosity \eta is computed as a function of particle volume density \rho and applied shear stress \sigma, for diffusively moving particles with a soft core interaction. We find an excellent scaling collapse of our data as a function of the scaling variable \sigma/|\rho_c-\rho|^\Delta, where \rho_c is the critical density at \sigma=0 ("point J"), and \Delta is the crossover scaling critical exponent. Our results show that jamming is a true critical phenomenon, extending to driven steady states along the non-equilibrium \sigma axis of the \rho-\sigma phase diagram. 
0704.01807	Polar actions on compact Euclidean hypersurfaces	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Ion Moutinho, Ruy Tojeiro	 Abstract: Given an isometric immersion $f\colon M^n\to \R^{n+1}$ of a compact Riemannian manifold of dimension $n\geq 3$ into Euclidean space of dimension $n+1$, we prove that the identity component $Iso^0(M^n)$ of the isometry group $Iso(M^n)$ of $M^n$ admits an orthogonal representation $\Phi\colon Iso^0(M^n)\to SO(n+1)$ such that $f\circ g=\Phi(g)\circ f$ for every $g\in Iso^0(M^n)$. If $G$ is a closed connected subgroup of $Iso(M^n)$ acting locally polarly on $M^n$, we prove that $\Phi(G)$ acts polarly on $\R^{n+1}$, and we obtain that $f(M^n)$ is given as $\Phi(G)(L)$, where $L$ is a hypersurface of a section which is invariant under the Weyl group of the $\Phi(G)$-action. We also find several sufficient conditions for such an $f$ to be a rotation hypersurface. Finally, we show that compact Euclidean rotation hypersurfaces of dimension $n\geq 3$ are characterized by their underlying warped product structure. 
0704.01808	Tests of Bayesian Model Selection Techniques for Gravitational Wave  Astronomy	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Neil J. Cornish, Tyson B. Littenberg	 Abstract: The analysis of gravitational wave data involves many model selection problems. The most important example is the detection problem of selecting between the data being consistent with instrument noise alone, or instrument noise and a gravitational wave signal. The analysis of data from ground based gravitational wave detectors is mostly conducted using classical statistics, and methods such as the Neyman-Pearson criteria are used for model selection. Future space based detectors, such as the \emph{Laser Interferometer Space Antenna} (LISA), are expected to produced rich data streams containing the signals from many millions of sources. Determining the number of sources that are resolvable, and the most appropriate description of each source poses a challenging model selection problem that may best be addressed in a Bayesian framework. An important class of LISA sources are the millions of low-mass binary systems within our own galaxy, tens of thousands of which will be detectable. Not only are the number of sources unknown, but so are the number of parameters required to model the waveforms. For example, a significant subset of the resolvable galactic binaries will exhibit orbital frequency evolution, while a smaller number will have measurable eccentricity. In the Bayesian approach to model selection one needs to compute the Bayes factor between competing models. Here we explore various methods for computing Bayes factors in the context of determining which galactic binaries have measurable frequency evolution. The methods explored include a Reverse Jump Markov Chain Monte Carlo (RJMCMC) algorithm, Savage-Dickie density ratios, the Schwarz-Bayes Information Criterion (BIC), and the Laplace approximation to the model evidence. We find good agreement between all of the approaches. 
0704.01809	All tight multipartite Bell correlation inequalities for an arbitrary  number of dichotomic observables per observer	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Piotr Badziag, Marek Zukowski	 Abstract: Derivation of the full set of Bell inequalities involving correlation functions, for two parties, with binary observables, and N possible local settings is not as easy as it seemed. The proof of v1 is wrong. Additionaly one can find a counterexample, which will be presented soon. Thus our thesis is dead. Still the series of Bell inequalities discussed in the manuscript (v1) form a necessary condition for local realism, and are tight. They are tight and complete (sufficient) only for N=3 settings per observer (as shown in quant-ph/0611086, fortunately using an entirely different approach). 
0704.01810	A Cascade Model for Particle Concentration and Enstrophy in Fully  Developed Turbulence with Mass Loading Feedback	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Robert C. Hogan, Jeffrey N. Cuzzi	 Abstract: A cascade model is described based on multiplier distributions determined from 3D direct numerical simulations (DNS) of turbulent particle laden flows, which include two-way coupling between the phases at global mass loadings equal to unity. The governing Eulerian equations are solved using pseudo-spectral methods on up to 512**3 computional grid points. DNS results for particle concentration and enstrophy at Taylor microscale Reynolds numbers in the range 34 - 170 were used to directly determine multiplier distributions (PDFs) on spatial scales 3 times the Kolmogorov length scale. The width of the PDFs, which is a measure of intermittency, decreases with increasing mass loading within the local region where the multipliers are measured. The functional form of this dependence is not sensitive to Reynolds numbers in the range considered. A partition correlation probability is included in the cascade model to account for the observed spatial anticorrelation between particle concentration and enstrophy. Joint probability distribution functions of concentration and enstrophy generated using the cascade model are shown to be in excellent agreement with those derived directly from our 3D simulations. Probabilities predicted by the cascade model are presented at Reynolds numbers well beyond what is achievable by direct simulation. These results clearly indicate that particle mass loading significantly reduces the probabilities of high particle concentration and enstrophy relative to those resulting from unloaded runs. Particle mass density appears to reach a limit at around 100 times the gas density. This approach has promise for significant computational savings in certain applications. 
0704.01811	Unifying Evolutionary and Network Dynamics	Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)	Authors:Samarth Swarup, Les Gasser	 Abstract: Many important real-world networks manifest "small-world" properties such as scale-free degree distributions, small diameters, and clustering. The most common model of growth for these networks is "preferential attachment", where nodes acquire new links with probability proportional to the number of links they already have. We show that preferential attachment is a special case of the process of molecular evolution. We present a new single-parameter model of network growth that unifies varieties of preferential attachment with the quasispecies equation (which models molecular evolution), and also with the Erdos-Renyi random graph model. We suggest some properties of evolutionary models that might be applied to the study of networks. We also derive the form of the degree distribution resulting from our algorithm, and we show through simulations that the process also models aspects of network growth. The unification allows mathematical machinery developed for evolutionary dynamics to be applied in the study of network dynamics, and vice versa. 
0704.01812	The LuckyCam Survey for Very Low Mass Binaries II: 13 new M4.5-M6.0  Binaries	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:N.M. Law (1 and 2), S.T. Hodgkin (2), C.D. Mackay (2) ((1) Caltech, (2) IOA, Cambridge)	 Abstract: We present results from a high-angular-resolution survey of 78 very low mass (VLM) binary systems with 6.0 <= V-K colour <= 7.5 and proper motion >= 0.15 arcsec/yr. 21 VLM binaries were detected, 13 of them new discoveries. The new binary systems range in separation between 0.18 arcsec and 1.3 arcsec. The distance-corrected binary fraction is 13.5% (+6.5%/-4%), in agreement with previous results. 9 of the new binary systems have orbital radii > 10 AU, including a new wide VLM binary with 27 AU projected orbital separation. One of the new systems forms two components of a 2300 AU separation triple system. We find that the orbital radius distribution of the binaries with V-K < 6.5 in this survey appears to be different from that of redder (lower-mass) objects, suggesting a possible rapid change in the orbital radius distribution at around the M5 spectral type. The target sample was also selected to investigate X-ray activity among VLM binaries. There is no detectable correlation between excess X-Ray emission and the frequency and binary properties of the VLM systems. 
0704.01813	The Discovery of a Companion to the Lowest Mass White Dwarf	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Mukremin Kilic, Warren R. Brown, Carlos Allende Prieto, M. H. Pinsonneault, S. J. Kenyon	 Abstract: We report the detection of a radial velocity companion to SDSS J091709.55+463821.8, the lowest mass white dwarf currently known with M~0.17Msun. The radial velocity of the white dwarf shows variations with a semi-amplitude of 148.8 km/s and a period of 7.5936 hours, which implies a companion mass of M > 0.28Msun. The lack of evidence of a companion in the optical photometry forces any main-sequence companion to be smaller than 0.1Msun, hence a low mass main sequence star companion is ruled out for this system. The companion is most likely another white dwarf, and we present tentative evidence for an evolutionary scenario which could have produced it. However, a neutron star companion cannot be ruled out and follow-up radio observations are required to search for a pulsar companion. 
0704.01814	A Measure of de Sitter Entropy and Eternal Inflation	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Nima Arkani-Hamed, Sergei Dubovsky, Alberto Nicolis, Enrico Trincherini, Giovanni Villadoro	 Abstract: We show that in any model of non-eternal inflation satisfying the null energy condition, the area of the de Sitter horizon increases by at least one Planck unit in each inflationary e-folding. This observation gives an operational meaning to the finiteness of the entropy S_dS of an inflationary de Sitter space eventually exiting into an asymptotically flat region: the asymptotic observer is never able to measure more than e^(S_dS) independent inflationary modes. This suggests a limitation on the amount of de Sitter space outside the horizon that can be consistently described at the semiclassical level, fitting well with other examples of the breakdown of locality in quantum gravity, such as in black hole evaporation. The bound does not hold in models of inflation that violate the null energy condition, such as ghost inflation. This strengthens the case for the thermodynamical interpretation of the bound as conventional black hole thermodynamics also fails in these models, strongly suggesting that these theories are incompatible with basic gravitational principles. 
0704.01815	Kondo-lattice screening in a d-wave superconductor	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Daniel E. Sheehy (Louisiana State University), Joerg Schmalian (Iowa State University)	 Abstract: We show that local moment screening in a Kondo lattice with d-wave superconducting conduction electrons is qualitatively different from the corresponding single Kondo impurity case. Despite the conduction-electron pseudogap, Kondo-lattice screening is stable if the gap amplitude obeys $\Delta <\sqrt{\tk D}$, in contrast to the single impurity condition $\Delta <\tk$ (where $\tk$ is the Kondo temperature for $\Delta = 0$ and D is the bandwidth). Our theory explains the heavy electron behavior in the d-wave superconductor Nd_{2-x}Ce_{x}CuO_{4}. 
0704.01816	Coincident, 100 kpc-scale damped Lyman alpha absorption towards a binary  QSO: how large are galaxies at z ~ 3?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Sara L. Ellison, Joseph F. Hennawi, Crystal L. Martin, Jesper Sommer-Larsen	 Abstract: We report coincident damped Lyman alpha (DLA) and sub-DLA absorption at z = 2.66 and z = 2.94 towards the z ~ 3 13.8 arcsecond separation binary quasar SDSS 1116+4118 AB. At the redshifts of the absorbers, this angular separation corresponds to a proper transverse separation of ~ 110 kpc. A third absorber, a sub-DLA at z = 2.47, is detected towards SDSS 1116+4118 B, but no corresponding high column density absorber is present towards SDSS 1116+4118 A. We use high resolution galaxy simulations and a clustering analysis to interpret the coincident absorption and its implications for galaxy structure at z ~ 3. We conclude that the common absorption in the two lines of sight is unlikely to arise from a single galaxy, or a galaxy plus satellite system, and is more feasibly explained by a group of two or more galaxies with separations ~ 100 kpc. The impact of these findings on single line of sight observations is also discussed; we show that abundances of DLAs may be affected by up to a few tenths of a dex by line of sight DLA blending. From a Keck ESI spectrum of the two quasars, we measure metal column densities for all five absorbers and determine abundances for the three absorbers with log N(HI) > 20. For the two highest N(HI) absorbers, we determine high levels of metal enrichment, corresponding to 1/3 and 1/5 solar. These metallicities are amongst the highest measured for DLAs at any redshift and are consistent with values measured in Lyman break galaxies at 2 < z < 3. For the DLA at z = 2.94 we also infer an approximately solar ratio of alpha-to-Fe peak elements from [S/Zn] = +0.05, and measure an upper limit for the molecular fraction in this particular line of sight of log f(H_2)< -5.5. 
0704.01817	Redefining the Missing Satellites Problem	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Louis E. Strigari, James S. Bullock, Manoj Kaplinghat, Juerg Diemand, Michael Kuhlen, Piero Madau	 Abstract: Numerical simulations of Milky-Way size Cold Dark Matter (CDM) halos predict a steeply rising mass function of small dark matter subhalos and a substructure count that greatly outnumbers the observed satellites of the Milky Way. Several proposed explanations exist, but detailed comparison between theory and observation in terms of the maximum circular velocity (Vmax) of the subhalos is hampered by the fact that Vmax for satellite halos is poorly constrained. We present comprehensive mass models for the well-known Milky Way dwarf satellites, and derive likelihood functions to show that their masses within 0.6 kpc (M_0.6) are strongly constrained by the present data. We show that the M_0.6 mass function of luminous satellite halos is flat between ~ 10^7 and 10^8 M_\odot. We use the ``Via Lactea'' N-body simulation to show that the M_0.6 mass function of CDM subhalos is steeply rising over this range. We rule out the hypothesis that the 11 well-known satellites of the Milky Way are hosted by the 11 most massive subhalos. We show that models where the brightest satellites correspond to the earliest forming subhalos or the most massive accreted objects both reproduce the observed mass function. A similar analysis with the newly-discovered dwarf satellites will further test these scenarios and provide powerful constraints on the CDM small-scale power spectrum and warm dark matter models. 
0704.01818	Low-density graph codes that are optimal for source/channel coding and  binning	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Martin J. Wainwright, Emin Martinian	 Abstract: We describe and analyze the joint source/channel coding properties of a class of sparse graphical codes based on compounding a low-density generator matrix (LDGM) code with a low-density parity check (LDPC) code. Our first pair of theorems establish that there exist codes from this ensemble, with all degrees remaining bounded independently of block length, that are simultaneously optimal as both source and channel codes when encoding and decoding are performed optimally. More precisely, in the context of lossy compression, we prove that finite degree constructions can achieve any pair $(R, D)$ on the rate-distortion curve of the binary symmetric source. In the context of channel coding, we prove that finite degree codes can achieve any pair $(C, p)$ on the capacity-noise curve of the binary symmetric channel. Next, we show that our compound construction has a nested structure that can be exploited to achieve the Wyner-Ziv bound for source coding with side information (SCSI), as well as the Gelfand-Pinsker bound for channel coding with side information (CCSI). Although the current results are based on optimal encoding and decoding, the proposed graphical codes have sparse structure and high girth that renders them well-suited to message-passing and other efficient decoding procedures. 
0704.01819	Comments on Charges and Near-Horizon Data of Black Rings	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Kentaro Hanaki, Keisuke Ohashi, Yuji Tachikawa	 Abstract: We study how the charges of the black rings measured at the asymptotic infinity are encoded in the near-horizon metric and gauge potentials, independent of the detailed structure of the connecting region. Our analysis clarifies how different sets of four-dimensional charges can be assigned to a single five-dimensional object under the Kaluza-Klein reduction. Possible choices are related by the Witten effect on dyons and by the large gauge transformation in four and five dimensions, respectively. 
0704.01820	Odd Triplet Pairing in clean Superconductor/Ferromagnet heterostructures	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Klaus Halterman, Paul H. Barsic, Oriol T. Valls	 Abstract: We study triplet pairing correlations in clean Ferromagnet (F)/Superconductor (S) nanojunctions, via fully self consistent solution of the Bogoliubov-de Gennes equations. We consider FSF trilayers, with S being an s-wave superconductor, and an arbitrary angle $\alpha$ between the magnetizations of the two F layers. We find that contrary to some previous expectations, triplet correlations, odd in time, are induced in both the S and F layers in the clean limit. We investigate their behavior as a function of time, position, and $\alpha$. The triplet amplitudes are largest at times on the order of the inverse ``Debye'' frequency, and at that time scale they are long ranged in both S and F. The zero temperature condensation energy is found to be lowest when the magnetizations are antiparallel. 
0704.01821	The S-parameter in Holographic Technicolor Models	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Kaustubh Agashe, Csaba Csaki, Christophe Grojean, Matthew Reece	 Abstract: We study the S parameter, considering especially its sign, in models of electroweak symmetry breaking (EWSB) in extra dimensions, with fermions localized near the UV brane. Such models are conjectured to be dual to 4D strong dynamics triggering EWSB. The motivation for such a study is that a negative value of S can significantly ameliorate the constraints from electroweak precision data on these models, allowing lower mass scales (TeV or below) for the new particles and leading to easier discovery at the LHC. We first extend an earlier proof of S>0 for EWSB by boundary conditions in arbitrary metric to the case of general kinetic functions for the gauge fields or arbitrary kinetic mixing. We then consider EWSB in the bulk by a Higgs VEV showing that S is positive for arbitrary metric and Higgs profile, assuming that the effects from higher-dimensional operators in the 5D theory are sub-leading and can therefore be neglected. For the specific case of AdS_5 with a power law Higgs profile, we also show that S ~ + O(1), including effects of possible kinetic mixing from higher-dimensional operator (of NDA size) in the $5D$ theory. Therefore, our work strongly suggests that S is positive in calculable models in extra dimensions. 
0704.01822	Energy Functionals for the Parabolic Monge-Ampere Equation	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Zuoliang Hou, Qi Li	 Abstract: We introduce certain energy functionals to the complex Monge-Ampere equation over a bounded domain with inhomogeneous boundary condition, and use these functionals to show the convergence of the solution to the parabolic Monge-Ampere equation. 
0704.01823	Compatible Actions and Cohomology of Crystallographic Groups	Algebraic Topology (math.AT)	Authors:Alejandro Adem, Jianquan Ge, Jianzhong Pan, Nansen Petrosyan	 Abstract: We compute the cohomology of crystallographic groups with holonomy of prime order. As an application we compute the group of gerbes associated to many six--dimensional toroidal orbifolds arising in string theory. 
0704.01824	Stochastic Heat Equation Driven by Fractional Noise and Local Time	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Yaozhong Hu, David Nualart	 Abstract: The aim of this paper is to study the $d$-dimensional stochastic heat equation with a multiplicative Gaussian noise which is white in space and it has the covariance of a fractional Brownian motion with Hurst parameter $% H\in (0,1)$ in time. Two types of equations are considered. First we consider the equation in the It\^{o}-Skorohod sense, and later in the Stratonovich sense. An explicit chaos development for the solution is obtained. On the other hand, the moments of the solution are expressed in terms of the exponential moments of some weighted intersection local time of the Brownian motion. 
0704.01825	Extended envelopes around Galactic Cepheids III. Y Oph and alpha Per  from near-infrared interferometry with CHARA/FLUOR	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Mérand, J. Audenberg, P. Kervella, V. Coudé du Foresto, T. ten Brummelaar, H. McAlister, et al	 Abstract: Unbiased angular diameter measurements are required for accurate distances to Cepheids using the interferometric Baade Wesselink method (IBWM). The precision of this technique is currently limited by interferometric measurements at the 1.5% level. At this level, the center-to-limb darkening (CLD) and the presence of circumstellar envelopes (CSE) seem to be the two main sources of bias. The observations we performed aim at improving our knowledge of the interferometric visibility profile of Cepheids. In particular, we assess the systematic presence of CSE around Cepheids in order determine accurate distances with the IBWM free from CSE biased angular diameters. We observed a Cepheid (Y Oph) for which the pulsation is well resolved and a non-pulsating yellow supergiant (alpha Per) using long-baseline near-infrared interferometry. We interpreted these data using a simple CSE model we previously developed. We found that our observations of alpha Per do not provide evidence for a CSE. The measured CLD is explained by an hydrostatic photospheric model. Our observations of Y Oph, when compared to smaller baseline measurements, suggest that it is surrounded by a CSE with similar characteristics to CSE found previously around other Cepheids. We have determined the distance to Y Oph to be d=491+/-18 pc. Additional evidence points toward the conclusion that most Cepheids are surrounded by faint CSE, detected by near infrared interferometry: after observing four Cepheids, all show evidence for a CSE. Our CSE non-detection around a non-pulsating supergiant in the instability strip, alpha Per, provides confidence in the detection technique and suggests a pulsation driven mass-loss mechanism for the Cepheids. 
0704.01826	Squark and Gaugino Hadroproduction and Decays in Non-Minimal Flavour  Violating Supersymmetry	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:G. Bozzi (ITP Karlsruhe), B. Fuks, B. Herrmann, M. Klasen (LPSC Grenoble)	 Abstract: We present an extensive analysis of squark and gaugino hadroproduction and decays in non-minimal flavour violating supersymmetry. We employ the so-called super-CKM basis to define the possible misalignment of quark and squark rotations, and we use generalized (possibly complex) charges to define the mutual couplings of (s)quarks and gauge bosons/gauginos. The cross sections for all squark-(anti-)squark/gaugino pair and squark-gaugino associated production processes as well as their decay widths are then given in compact analytic form. For four different constrained supersymmetry breaking models with non-minimal flavour violation in the second/third generation squark sector only, we establish the parameter space regions allowed/favoured by low-energy, electroweak precision, and cosmological constraints and display the chirality and flavour decomposition of all up- and down-type squark mass eigenstates. Finally, we compute numerically the dependence of a representative sample of production cross sections at the LHC on the off-diagonal mass matrix elements in the experimentally allowed/favoured ranges. 
0704.01827	Transaction-Oriented Simulation In Ad Hoc Grids	Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)	Authors:Gerald Krafft	 Abstract: This paper analyses the possibilities of performing parallel transaction-oriented simulations with a special focus on the space-parallel approach and discrete event simulation synchronisation algorithms that are suitable for transaction-oriented simulation and the target environment of Ad Hoc Grids. To demonstrate the findings a Java-based parallel transaction-oriented simulator for the simulation language GPSS/H is implemented on the basis of the promising Shock Resistant Time Warp synchronisation algorithm and using the Grid framework ProActive. The validation of this parallel simulator shows that the Shock Resistant Time Warp algorithm can successfully reduce the number of rolled back Transaction moves but it also reveals circumstances in which the Shock Resistant Time Warp algorithm can be outperformed by the normal Time Warp algorithm. The conclusion of this paper suggests possible improvements to the Shock Resistant Time Warp algorithm to avoid such problems. 
0704.01828	Gauge invariance in gravity-like descriptions of massive gauge field  theories	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Dennis D. Dietrich	 Abstract: We discuss gravity-like formulations of massive Abelian and non-Abelian gauge field theories in four space-time dimensions with particular emphasis on the issue of gauge invariance. Alternative descriptions in terms of antisymmetric tensor fields and geometric variables, respectively, are analysed. In both approaches St\"uckelberg degrees of freedom factor out. We also demonstrate, in the Abelian case, that the massless limit for the gauge propagator, which does not exist in the vector potential formulation, is well-defined for the antisymmetric tensor fields. 
0704.01829	On-line Chain Partitions of Up-growing Semi-orders	Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)	Authors:Stefan Felsner, Kamil Kloch, Grzegorz Matecki, Piotr Micek	 Abstract: On-line chain partition is a two-player game between Spoiler and Algorithm. Spoiler presents a partially ordered set, point by point. Algorithm assigns incoming points (immediately and irrevocably) to the chains which constitute a chain partition of the order. The value of the game for orders of width $w$ is a minimum number $\fVal(w)$ such that Algorithm has a strategy using at most $\fVal(w)$ chains on orders of width at most $w$. We analyze the chain partition game for up-growing semi-orders. Surprisingly, the golden ratio comes into play and the value of the game is $\lfloor\frac{1+\sqrt{5}}{2}\; w \rfloor$. 
0704.01830	An Electromagnetic Calorimeter for the JLab Real Compton Scattering  Experiment	Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)	Authors:D. J. Hamilton, A. Shahinyan, B. Wojtsekhowski, J. R. M. Annand, T.-H. Chang, E. Chudakov, A. Danagoulian, P. Degtyarenko, K. Egiyan, R. Gilman, V. Gorbenko, J. Hines, E. Hovhannisyan, C. E. Hyde-Wright, C.W. de Jager, A. Ketikyan, V. H. Mamyan, R. Michaels, A. M. Nathan, V. Nelyubin, I. Rachek, M. Roedelbrom, A. Petrosyan, R. Pomatsalyuk, V. Popov, J. Segal, Y. Shestakov, J. Templon, H. Voskanyan	 Abstract: A lead-glass hodoscope calorimeter that was constructed for use in the Jefferson Lab Real Compton Scattering experiment is described. The detector provides a measurement of the coordinates and the energy of scattered photons in the GeV energy range with resolutions of 5 mm and 6%/\sqrt(E{\gamma} [GeV]). Features of both the detector design and its performance in the high luminosity environment during the experiment are presented. 
0704.01831	Multiplicity Fluctuations in Au+Au Collisions at RHIC	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:V.P. Konchakovski, M.I. Gorenstein, E.L. Bratkovskaya	 Abstract: The preliminary data of the PHENIX collaboration for the scaled variances of charged hadron multiplicity fluctuations in Au+Au at $\sqrt{s}=200$ GeV are analyzed within the model of independent sources. We use the HSD transport model to calculate the participant number fluctuations and the number of charged hadrons per nucleon participant in different centrality bins. This combined picture leads to a good agreement with the PHENIX data and suggests that the measured multiplicity fluctuations result dominantly from participant number fluctuations. The role of centrality selection and acceptance is discussed separately. 
0704.01832	Near and Mid-IR Photometry of the Pleiades, and a New List of Substellar  Candidate Members	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:John R. Stauffer (SSC), Lee W. Hartmann (Univ Michigan), Giovanni G. Fazio (CfA), Lori E. Allen (CfA), Brian M. Patten (CfA), Patrick J. Lowrance (SSC), Robert L. Hurt (SSC), Luisa M. Rebull (SSC), Roc M. Cutri (IPAC), Solange V. Ramirez (IPAC), Erick T. Young (Univ Arizona), George H. Rieke (Univ Arizona), Nadya I. Gorlova (Univ Arizona), James C. Muzerolle (Univ Arizona), Cathy L. Slesnick (Caltech), Michael F. Skrutskie (Univ Virginia)	 Abstract: We make use of new near and mid-IR photometry of the Pleiades cluster in order to help identify proposed cluster members. We also use the new photometry with previously published photometry to define the single-star main sequence locus at the age of the Pleiades in a variety of color-magnitude planes. The new near and mid-IR photometry extend effectively two magnitudes deeper than the 2MASS All-Sky Point Source catalog, and hence allow us to select a new set of candidate very low mass and sub-stellar mass members of the Pleiades in the central square degree of the cluster. We identify 42 new candidate members fainter than Ks =14 (corresponding to 0.1 Mo). These candidate members should eventually allow a better estimate of the cluster mass function to be made down to of order 0.04 solar masses. We also use new IRAC data, in particular the images obtained at 8 um, in order to comment briefly on interstellar dust in and near the Pleiades. We confirm, as expected, that -- with one exception -- a sample of low mass stars recently identified as having 24 um excesses due to debris disks do not have significant excesses at IRAC wavelengths. However, evidence is also presented that several of the Pleiades high mass stars are found to be impacting with local condensations of the molecular cloud that is passing through the Pleiades at the current epoch. 
0704.01833	Analysis of the 802.11e Enhanced Distributed Channel Access Function	Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)	Authors:Inanc Inan, Feyza Keceli, Ender Ayanoglu	 Abstract: The IEEE 802.11e standard revises the Medium Access Control (MAC) layer of the former IEEE 802.11 standard for Quality-of-Service (QoS) provision in the Wireless Local Area Networks (WLANs). The Enhanced Distributed Channel Access (EDCA) function of 802.11e defines multiple Access Categories (AC) with AC-specific Contention Window (CW) sizes, Arbitration Interframe Space (AIFS) values, and Transmit Opportunity (TXOP) limits to support MAC-level QoS and prioritization. We propose an analytical model for the EDCA function which incorporates an accurate CW, AIFS, and TXOP differentiation at any traffic load. The proposed model is also shown to capture the effect of MAC layer buffer size on the performance. Analytical and simulation results are compared to demonstrate the accuracy of the proposed approach for varying traffic loads, EDCA parameters, and MAC layer buffer space. 
0704.01834	Charge Ordering in Half-Doped Manganites: Weak Charge Disproportion and  Leading Mechanisms	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Dmitri Volja, Wei-Guo Yin, Wei Ku	 Abstract: The apparent contradiction between the recently observed weak charge disproportion and the traditional Mn$^{3+}$/Mn$^{4+}$ picture of the charge-orbital orders in half-doped manganites is resolved by a novel Wannier states analysis of the LDA$+U$ electronic structure. Strong electron itinerancy in this charge-transfer system significantly delocalizes the occupied low-energy "Mn$^{3+}$" Wannier states such that charge leaks into the "Mn$^{4+}$"-sites. Furthermore, the leading mechanisms of the charge order are quantified via our first-principles derivation of the low-energy effective Hamiltonian. The electron-electron interaction is found to play a role as important as the electron-lattice interaction. \ignore{A general picture of doped holes in strongly correlated charge-transfer systems is presented and applied to the study of charge order in half-doped manganites, using a novel Wannier states analysis of the LDA$+U$ electronic structure. While residing primarily in the oxygen atoms, the doped holes form additional effective $e_g$ orbitals at the low-energy scale, leading to an effective Mn$^{3+}$/Mn$^{4+}$ valence picture that enables weak charge disproportion, resolving the current serious contradictions between the recent experimental observations of charge distribution and traditional models. Furthermore, the leading mechanisms of the observed charge order are quantified via our first-principles derivation of the low-energy effective Hamiltonian 
0704.01835	Direct extraction of one-loop integral coefficients	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Darren Forde	 Abstract: We present a general procedure for obtaining the coefficients of the scalar bubble and triangle integral functions of one-loop amplitudes. Coefficients are extracted by considering two-particle and triple unitarity cuts of the corresponding bubble and triangle integral functions. After choosing a specific parameterisation of the cut loop momentum we can uniquely identify the coefficients of the desired integral functions simply by examining the behaviour of the cut integrand as the unconstrained parameters of the cut loop momentum approach infinity. In this way we can produce compact forms for scalar integral coefficients. Applications of this method are presented for both QCD and electroweak processes, including an alternative form for the recently computed three-mass triangle coefficient in the six-photon amplitude $A_6(1^-,2^+,3^-,4^+,5^-,6^+)$. The direct nature of this extraction procedure allows for a very straightforward automation of the procedure. 
0704.01836	Comment on Electroweak Higgs as a Pseudo-Goldstone Boson of Broken Scale  Invariance	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Hitoshi Nishino, Subhash Rajpoot	 Abstract: The first model of Foot, Kobakhidze and Volkas described in their work in arXiv:0704.1165 [hep-ph] is a tailored version of our model on broken scale invariance in the standard model presented in hep-th/0403039. 
0704.01837	Hard x-ray photoemission study of LaAlO3/LaVO3 multilayers	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:H. Wadati, Y. Hotta, A. Fujimori, T. Susaki, H. Y. Hwang, Y. Takata, K. Horiba, M. Matsunami, S. Shin, M. Yabashi, K. Tamasaku, Y. Nishino, T. Ishikawa	 Abstract: We have studied the electronic structure of multilayers composed of a band insulator LaAlO$_3$ (LAO) and a Mott insulator LaVO$_3$ (LVO) by means of hard x-ray photoemission spectroscopy, which has a probing depth as large as $\sim 60 {\AA}$. The Mott-Hubbard gap of LVO remained open at the interface, indicating that the interface is insulating unlike the LaTiO$_3$/SrTiO$_3$ multilayers. We found that the valence of V in LVO were partially converted from V$^{3+}$ to V$^{4+}$ only at the interface on the top side of the LVO layer and that the amount of V$^{4+}$ increased with LVO layer thickness. We suggest that the electronic reconstruction to eliminate the polarity catastrophe inherent in the polar heterostructure is the origin of the highly asymmetric valence change at the LVO/LAO interfaces. 
0704.01838	Performance Analysis of the IEEE 802.11e Enhanced Distributed  Coordination Function using Cycle Time Approach	Other Computer Science (cs.OH)	Authors:Inanc Inan, Feyza Keceli, Ender Ayanoglu	 Abstract: The recently ratified IEEE 802.11e standard defines the Enhanced Distributed Channel Access (EDCA) function for Quality-of-Service (QoS) provisioning in the Wireless Local Area Networks (WLANs). The EDCA uses Carrier Sense Multiple Access with Collision Avoidance (CSMA/CA) and slotted Binary Exponential Backoff (BEB) mechanism. We present a simple mathematical analysis framework for the EDCA function. Our analysis considers the fact that the distributed random access systems exhibit cyclic behavior where each station successfully transmits a packet in a cycle. Our analysis shows that an AC-specific cycle time exists for the EDCA function. Validating the theoretical results via simulations, we show that the proposed analysis accurately captures EDCA saturation performance in terms of average throughput, medium access delay, and packet loss ratio. The cycle time analysis is a simple and insightful substitute for previously proposed more complex EDCA models. 
0704.01839	ALHEP symbolic algebra program for high-energy physics	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:V. Makarenko	 Abstract: ALHEP is the symbolic algebra program for high-energy physics. It deals with amplitudes calculation, matrix element squaring, Wick theorem, dimensional regularization, tensor reduction of loop integrals and simplification of final expressions. The program output includes: Fortran code for differential cross section, Mathematica files to view results and intermediate steps and TeX source for Feynman diagrams. The PYTHIA interface is available. The project website this http URL contains up-to-date executables, manual and script examples. 
0704.01840	Simulations of aging and plastic deformation in polymer glasses	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Mya Warren, Joerg Rottler	 Abstract: We study the effect of physical aging on the mechanical properties of a model polymer glass using molecular dynamics simulations. The creep compliance is determined simultaneously with the structural relaxation under a constant uniaxial load below yield at constant temperature. The model successfully captures universal features found experimentally in polymer glasses, including signatures of mechanical rejuvenation. We analyze microscopic relaxation timescales and show that they exhibit the same aging characteristics as the macroscopic creep compliance. In addition, our model indicates that the entire distribution of relaxation times scales identically with age. Despite large changes in mobility, we observe comparatively little structural change except for a weak logarithmic increase in the degree of short-range order that may be correlated to an observed decrease in aging with increasing load. 
0704.01841	Gaseous Inner Disks	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Joan R. Najita, John S. Carr, Alfred E. Glassgold, Jeff Valenti	 Abstract: As the likely birthplaces of planets and an essential conduit for the buildup of stellar masses, inner disks are of fundamental interest in star and planet formation. Studies of the gaseous component of inner disks are of interest because of their ability to probe the dynamics, physical and chemical structure, and gas content of this region. We review the observational and theoretical developments in this field, highlighting the potential of such studies to, e.g., measure inner disk truncation radii, probe the nature of the disk accretion process, and chart the evolution in the gas content of disks. Measurements of this kind have the potential to provide unique insights on the physical processes governing star and planet formation. 
0704.01842	Fairness Provision in the IEEE 802.11e Infrastructure Basic Service Set	Other Computer Science (cs.OH)	Authors:Feyza Keceli, Inanc Inan, Ender Ayanoglu	 Abstract: Most of the deployed IEEE 802.11e Wireless Local Area Networks (WLANs) use infrastructure Basic Service Set (BSS) in which an Access Point (AP) serves as a gateway between wired and wireless domains. We present the unfairness problem between the uplink and the downlink flows of any Access Category (AC) in the 802.11e Enhanced Distributed Channel Access (EDCA) when the default settings of the EDCA parameters are used. We propose a simple analytical model to calculate the EDCA parameter settings that achieve weighted fair resource allocation for all uplink and downlink flows. We also propose a simple model-assisted measurement-based dynamic EDCA parameter adaptation algorithm. Moreover, our dynamic solution addresses the differences in the transport layer and the Medium Access Control (MAC) layer interactions of User Datagram Protocol (UDP) and Transmission Control Protocol (TCP). We show that proposed Contention Window (CW) and Transmit Opportunity (TXOP) limit adaptation at the AP provides fair UDP and TCP access between uplink and downlink flows of the same AC while preserving prioritization among ACs. 
0704.01843	Radiation from Kinetic Poynting Flux Acceleration	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Edison Liang, Koichi Noguchi	 Abstract: We derive analytic formulas for the power output and critical frequency of radiation by electrons accelerated by relativistic kinetic Poynting flux, and validate these results with Particle-In-Cell plasma simulations. We find that the in-situ radiation power output and critical frequency are much below those predicted by the classical synchrotron formulae. We discuss potential astrophysical applications of these results. 
0704.01844	A New Algebraic Structure of Finite Quantum Systems and the Modified  Bessel Functions	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Kazuyuki Fujii (Yokohama City University)	 Abstract: In this paper we present a new algebraic structure (a super hyperbolic system in our terminology) for finite quantum systems, which is a generalization of the usual one in the two-level system. It fits into the so-called generalized Pauli matrices, so they play an important role in the theory. Some deep relation to the modified Bessel functions of integer order is pointed out. By taking a skillful limit finite quantum systems become quantum mechanics on the circle developed by Ohnuki and Kitakado. 
0704.01845	The Lee-Wick Standard Model	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Benjamin Grinstein, Donal O'Connell, Mark B. Wise	 Abstract: We construct a modification of the standard model which stabilizes the Higgs mass against quadratically divergent radiative corrections, using ideas originally discussed by Lee and Wick in the context of a finite theory of quantum electrodynamics. The Lagrangian includes new higher derivative operators. We show that the higher derivative terms can be eliminated by introducing a set of auxiliary fields; this allows for convenient computation and makes the physical interpretation more transparent. Although the theory is unitary, it does not satisfy the usual analyticity conditions. 
0704.01846	Specht modules and Kazhdan--Lusztig cells in type $B_n$	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Meinolf Geck, Lacrimioara Iancu, Christos Pallikaros	 Abstract: Dipper, James and Murphy generalized the classical Specht module theory to Hecke algebras of type $B_n$. On the other hand, for any choice of a monomial order on the parameters in type $B_n$, we obtain corresponding Kazhdan--Lusztig cell modules. In this paper, we show that the Specht modules are naturally equivalent to the Kazhdan--Lusztig cell modules {\em if} we choose the dominance order on the parameters, as in the ``asymptotic case'' studied by Bonnaf\'e and the second named author. We also give examples which show that such an equivalence does not hold for other choices of monomial orders. 
0704.01847	Growing Networks: Limit in-degree distribution for arbitrary out-degree  one	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Daniel Fraiman	 Abstract: We compute the stationary in-degree probability, $P_{in}(k)$, for a growing network model with directed edges and arbitrary out-degree probability. In particular, under preferential linking, we find that if the nodes have a light tail (finite variance) out-degree distribution, then the corresponding in-degree one behaves as $k^{-3}$. Moreover, for an out-degree distribution with a scale invariant tail, $P_{out}(k)\sim k^{-\alpha}$, the corresponding in-degree distribution has exactly the same asymptotic behavior only if $2<\alpha<3$ (infinite variance). Similar results are obtained when attractiveness is included. We also present some results on descriptive statistics measures %descriptive statistics such as the correlation between the number of in-going links, $D_{in}$, and outgoing links, $D_{out}$, and the conditional expectation of $D_{in}$ given $D_{out}$, and we calculate these measures for the WWW network. Finally, we present an application to the scientific publications network. The results presented here can explain the tail behavior of in/out-degree distribution observed in many real networks. 
0704.01848	UV stable, Lorentz-violating dark energy with transient phantom era	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Maxim Libanov, Eleftherios Papantonopoulos, Valery Rubakov, M. Sami, Shinji Tsujikawa	 Abstract: Phantom fields with negative kinetic energy are often plagued by the vacuum quantum instability in the ultraviolet region. We present a Lorentz-violating dark energy model free from this problem and show that the crossing of the cosmological constant boundary w=-1 to the phantom equation of state is realized before reaching a de Sitter attractor. Another interesting feature is a peculiar time-dependence of the effective Newton's constant; the magnitude of this effect is naturally small but may be close to experimental limits. We also derive momentum scales of instabilities at which tachyons or ghosts appear in the infrared region around the present Hubble scale and clarify the conditions under which tachyonic instabilities do not spoil homogeneity of the present/future Universe. 
0704.01849	Response of degree-correlated scale-free networks to stimuli	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Sheng-Jun Wang, An-Cai Wu, Zhi-Xi Wu, Xin-Jian Xu, Ying-Hai Wang	 Abstract: The response of degree-correlated scale-free attractor networks to stimuli is studied. We show that degree-correlated scale-free networks are robust to random stimuli as well as the uncorrelated scale-free networks, while assortative (disassortative) scale-free networks are more (less) sensitive to directed stimuli than uncorrelated networks. We find that the degree-correlation of scale-free networks makes the dynamics of attractor systems different from uncorrelated ones. The dynamics of correlated scale-free attractor networks result in the effects of degree correlation on the response to stimuli. 
0704.01850	Shock and Release Temperatures in Molybdenum	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Damian C. Swift, Achim Seifter, David B. Holtkamp, David A. Clark	 Abstract: Shock and release temperatures in Mo were calculated, taking account of heating from plastic flow predicted using the Steinberg-Guinan model. Plastic flow was calculated self-consistently with the shock jump conditions: this is necessary for a rigorous estimate of the locus of shock states accessible. The temperatures obtained were significantly higher than predicted assuming ideal hydrodynamic loading. The temperatures were compared with surface emission spectrometry measurements for Mo shocked to around 60GPa and then released into vacuum or into a LiF window. Shock loading was induced by the impact of a planar projectile, accelerated by high explosive or in a gas gun. Surface velocimetry showed an elastic wave at the start of release from the shocked state; the amplitude of the elastic wave matched the prediction to around 10%, indicating that the predicted flow stress in the shocked state was reasonable. The measured temperatures were consistent with the simulations, indicating that the fraction of plastic work converted to heat was in the range 70-100% for these loading conditions. 
0704.01851	Spectrum of the Laplacian on Quaternionic Kahler Manifolds	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Shengli Kong, Peter Li, Detang Zhou	 Abstract: Let $M^{4n}$ be a complete quaternionic K\"ahler manifold with scalar curvature bounded below by $-16n(n+2)$. We get a sharp estimate for the first eigenvalue $\lambda_1(M)$ of the Laplacian which is $\lambda_1(M)\le (2n+1)^2$. If the equality holds, then either $M$ has only one end, or $M$ is diffeomorphic to $\mathbb{R}\times N$ with N given by a compact manifold. Moreover, if $M$ is of bounded curvature, $M$ is covered by the quaterionic hyperbolic space $\mathbb{QH}^n$ and $N$ is a compact quotient of the generalized Heisenberg group. When $\lambda_1(M)\ge \frac{8(n+2)}3$, we also prove that $M$ must have only one end with infinite volume. 
0704.01852	Biased Structural Fluctuations due to Electron Wind Force	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:O. Bondarchuk, W.G. Cullen, M. Degawa, Ellen D. Williams	 Abstract: Direct correlation between temporal structural fluctuations and electron wind force is demonstrated, for the first time, by STM imaging and analysis of atomically-resolved motion on a thin film surface under large applied current (10e5 Amp/sqare cm). The magnitude of the momentum transfer between current carriers and atoms in the fluctuating structure is at least five to fifteen times (plus or minus one sigma range) larger than for freely diffusing adatoms. The corresponding changes in surface resistivity will contribute significant fluctuation signature to nanoscale electronic properties. 
0704.01853	Dissipation of Magnetic Flux in Primordial Star Formation: From Run-away  Phase to Mass Accretion Phase	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Hideki Maki, Hajime Susa	 Abstract: We investigate the dissipation of magnetic flux in primordial star-forming clouds throughout their collapse including the run-away collapse phase as well as the accretion phase. We solve the energy equation and the non-equilibrium chemical reactions in the collapsing gas, in order to obtain the radial distribution of the ionized fraction during the collapse. As a result, we find the ionized fraction is high enough for the magnetic field to couple with the gas throughout the evolution of the cloud. This result suggests that the jet formation from protostars as well as the activation of magneto-rotational instability in the accretion disk are enabled in the presence of the cosmological seed magnetic flux proposed by Langer et al.(2003). 
0704.01854	Teaching for transfer	Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)	Authors:Sanjoy Mahajan	 Abstract: Students, after they leave our care, are called to solve the diverse problems of the world, so we should teach to increase transfer: the ability to apply fundamental principles to new problems and contexts. This ability is rare. The following pages are from a workshop for faculty on designing courses that promote transfer. I discuss two design principles: to name the transferable ideas and to illustrate them with examples from diverse subjects. The discussion uses dimensional reasoning as the example of a valuable transferable idea, illustrating it with three diverse examples. 
0704.01855	Variations of the Hidden Sector in a Realistic Intersecting Brane Model	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Ching-Ming Chen, Tianjun Li, V. E. Mayes, Dimitri V. Nanopoulos	 Abstract: Recently, we discussed the first example of a phenomenologically realistic intersecting D6-brane model. In this model, the gauge symmetry in the hidden sector is USp(2)_1 x USp(2)_2 x USp(2)_3 x USp(2)_4. However, we find that the USp(2)_1 x USp(2)_2 gauge symmetry can be replaced by an U(2)_{12} gauge symmetry, and/or the USp(2)_3 x USp(2)_4 gauge symmetry can be replaced by an U(2)_{34} gauge symmetry since the USp(2)^2 stacks of D6-branes contribute to the same Ramond-Ramond tadpoles as those of the U(2) stacks. Thus, there are three non-equivalent variations of the hidden sector, and the corresponding gauge symmetries are U(2)_{12} x USp(2)_3 x USp(2)_4, U(2)_{34} x USp(2)_1 x USp(2)_2, and U(2)_{12} x U(2)_{34}, respectively. Moreover, we study the hidden sector gauge symmetry breaking, discuss how to decouple the additional exotic particles, and briefly comment on the phenomenological consequences. 
0704.01856	Axial Vector Tetraquark with Two s-quarks	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Yoshiko Kanada-En'yo, Osamu Morimatsu, Tetsuo Nishikawa	 Abstract: Possibility of an axial vector isoscalar tetraquark $ud\bar{s}\bar{s}$ is discussed. If a $f_1$ meson in the mass region $1.4-1.5$ GeV consists of four quarks $ns\bar{n}\bar{s}$, the mass of the isoscalar $ud\bar{s}\bar{s}$($\vartheta^+$-meson) state with $J^P=1^+$ is expected to be lower than that of the $f_1$ meson. Within a flux-tube quark model, a possible resonant state of $ud\bar{s}\bar{s}(J^{P}=1^{+})$ is suggested to appear at $\sim$ 1.4 GeV with the width ${\cal{O}}(20\sim 50)$ MeV. We propose that the $\vartheta^+$-meson is the good candidate for the tetraquark search, which would be observed in the $K^+K^+\pi^-$ decay channel. 
0704.01857	What is the order of 2D polymer escape transition?	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Hsiao-Ping Hsu, Kurt Binder, Leonid I. Klushin, Alexander M. Skvortsov	 Abstract: An end-grafted flexible polymer chain in 3d space between two pistons undergoes an abrupt transition from a confined coil to a flower-like conformation when the number of monomers in the chain, N, reaches a critical value. In 2d geometry, excluded volume interactions between monomers of a chain confined inside a strip of finite length 2L transform the coil conformation into a linear string of blobs. However, the blob picture raises questions on the nature of this escape transition. To check the theoretical predictions based on the blob picture we study 2d single polymer chains with excluded volume interactions and with one end grafted in the middle of a strip of length 2L and width H by simulating self-avoiding walks on a square lattice with the pruned-enriched-Rosenbluth method (PERM). We estimate the free energy, the end-to-end distance, the number of imprisoned monomers, the order parameter, and its distribution. It is shown that in the thermodynamic limit of large N and L but finite L/N, there is a small but finite jump in several average characteristics, including the order parameter. We also present a theoretical description based on the Landau free energy approach, which is in good agreement with the simulation results. Both simulation results and the analytical theory indicate that the 2d escape transition is a weak first-order phase transition. 
0704.01858	Detecting the Most Distant (z>7) Objects with ALMA	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Fabian Walter, Chris Carilli	 Abstract: Detecting and studying objects at the highest redshifts, out to the end of Cosmic Reionization at z>7, is clearly a key science goal of ALMA. ALMA will in principle be able to detect objects in this redshift range both from high-J (J>7) CO transitions and emission from ionized carbon, [CII], which is one of the main cooling lines of the ISM. ALMA will even be able to resolve this emission for individual targets, which will be one of the few ways to determine dynamical masses for systems in the Epoch of Reionization. We discuss some of the current problems regarding the detection and characterization of objects at high redshifts and how ALMA will eliminate most (but not all) of them. 
0704.01859	Weak type radial convolution operators on free group	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:T. Pytlik, R. Szwarc	 Abstract: Radial convolution operators on free groups with nonnegative kernel of weak type $(2,2)$ and of restricted weak type $(2,2)$ are characterized. Estimates of weak type $(p,p)$ are obtained as well for $1<p<2.$ 
0704.01860	How Mergers May Affect The Mass Scaling Relations Between Black Holes,  Galaxies, and Other Gravitationally Bound Systems	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Chien Y. Peng (STScI)	 Abstract: Supermassive black hole (BH) masses (MBH) are strongly correlated with galaxy stellar bulge masses (Mbulge) and there are several ideas to explain the origin of this relationship. This study isolates the role of galaxy mergers from considerations of other detailed physics to more clearly show how a linear BH-galaxy mass relation (MBH-Mgal) can naturally emerge regardless of how primordial BHs were seeded inside galaxies, if the galaxy mass function declines with increasing mass. Under this circumstance, the MBH-Mgal relation is a passive attractor that eventually converges to a tight linear relation because of two basic statistical effects: a central limit-like tendency for galaxy mergers which is much stronger for major mergers than minor mergers, and a convergence toward a linear relation that is due mainly to minor mergers. A curious consequence of this thought experiment is that, if galaxy bulges are formed by major mergers, then merging statistics naturally show that MBH would correlate more strongly with bulge dominated galaxies, because of stronger central-seeking tendencies, than with disk dominated galaxies. Even if some other physics is ultimately responsible for causing a linear MBH-Mbulge relationship, this thought experiment shows that, counter to intuition, random merging of galaxies that harbor random BH masses tends to strengthen rather than weaken a pre-existing, linear, correlation. This idea may be generalized to other gravitationally bound systems (dark matter halo, compact nuclear objects) that retain their physical identities after experiencing mergers. 
0704.01861	Analycity and smoothing effect for the coupled system of equations of  Korteweg - de Vries type with a single point singularity	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Mauricio Sepulveda (GI2MA), Octavio Vera	 Abstract: We study that a solution of the initial value problem associated for the coupled system of equations of Korteweg - de Vries type which appears as a model to describe the strong interaction of weakly nonlinear long waves, has analyticity in time and smoothing effect up to real analyticity if the initial data only has a single point singularity at $x=0.$ 
0704.01862	Smoothing properties for the higher order nonlinear Schrödinger  equation with constant coefficients	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Mauricio Sepulveda (GI2MA), Octavio Vera	 Abstract: We study local and global existence and smoothing properties for the initial value problem associated to a higher order nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation with constant coefficients which appears as a model for propagation of pulse in optical fiber. 
0704.01863	Double spin asymmetry in exclusive rho^0 muoproduction at COMPASS	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:COMPASS Collaboration, M. Alekseev, et al	 Abstract: The longitudinal double spin asymmetry A_1^rho for exclusive leptoproduction of rho^0 mesons, mu + N -> mu + N + rho, is studied using the COMPASS 2002 and 2003 data. The measured reaction is incoherent exclusive rho^0 production on polarised deuterons. The Q^2 and x dependence of A_1^rho is presented in a wide kinematical range: 3x10^-3 < Q^2 < 7 (GeV/c)^2 and 5x10^-5 < x < 0.05. The presented results are the first measurements of A_1^rho at small Q2 (Q2 < 0.1 (GeV/c)^2) and small x (x < 3x10^-3). The asymmetry is in general compatible with zero in the whole kinematical range. 
0704.01864	High purity bright single photon source	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:J. S. Neergaard-Nielsen, B. Melholt Nielsen, H. Takahashi, A. I. Vistnes, E. S. Polzik	 Abstract: Using cavity-enhanced non-degenerate parametric downconversion, we have built a frequency tunable source of heralded single photons with a narrow bandwidth of 8 MHz, making it compatible with atomic quantum memories. The photon state is 70% pure single photon as characterized by a tomographic measurement and reconstruction of the quantum state, revealing a clearly negative Wigner function. Furthermore, it has a spectral brightness of ~1,500 photons/s per MHz bandwidth, making it one of the brightest single photon sources available. We also investigate the correlation function of the down-converted fields using a combination of two very distinct detection methods; photon counting and homodyne measurement. 
0704.01865	On $L^{1}$-Convergence of Fourier Series Under $MVBV$ Condition	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Dan Sheng Yu, Ping Zhou, Song Ping Zhou	 Abstract: Let $f\in L_{2\pi}$ be a real-valued even function with its Fourier series $ \frac{a_{0}}{2}+\sum_{n=1}^{\infty}a_{n}\cos nx,$ and let $S_{n}(f,x), n\geq 1,$ be the $n$-th partial sum of the Fourier series. It is well-known that if the nonnegative sequence $\{a_{n}\}$ is decreasing and $\lim\limits_{n\to \infty}a_{n}=0$, then $$ \lim\limits_{n\to \infty}\Vert f-S_{n}(f)\Vert_{L}=0 {if and only if} \lim\limits_{n\to \infty}a_{n}\log n=0. $$ We weaken the monotone condition in this classical result to the so-called mean value bounded variation ($MVBV$) condition. The generalization of the above classical result in real-valued function space is presented as a special case of the main result in this paper which gives the $L^{1}$% -convergence of a function $f\in L_{2\pi}$ in complex space. We also give results on $L^{1}$-approximation of a function $f\in L_{2\pi}$ under the $% MVBV$ condition. 
0704.01866	On global solution to the Klein-Gordon-Hartree equation below energy  space	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Changxing Miao, Junyong Zhang	 Abstract: In this paper, we consider the Cauchy problem for Klein-Gordon equation with a cubic convolution nonlinearity in $\R^3$. By making use of Bourgain's method in conjunction with a precise Strichartz estimate of S.Klainerman and D.Tataru, we establish the $H^s (s<1)$ global well-posedness of the Cauchy problem for the cubic convolution defocusing Klein-Gordon-Hartree equation. Before arriving at the previously discussed conclusion, we obtain global solution for this non-scaling equation with small initial data in $H^{s_0}\times H^{s_0-1}$ where $s_0=\frac\gamma 6$ but not $\frac\gamma2-1$, for this equation that we consider is a subconformal equation in some sense. In doing so a number of nonlinear prior estimates are already established by using Bony's decomposition, flexibility of Klein-Gordon admissible pairs which are slightly different from that of wave equation and a commutator estimate. We establish this commutator estimate by exploiting cancellation property and utilizing Coifman and Meyer multilinear multiplier theorem. As far as we know, it seems that this is the first result on low regularity for this Klein-Gordon-Hartree equation. 
0704.01867	Parameter estimation for power-law distributions by maximum likelihood  methods	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Heiko Bauke	 Abstract: Distributions following a power-law are an ubiquitous phenomenon. Methods for determining the exponent of a power-law tail by graphical means are often used in practice but are intrinsically unreliable. Maximum likelihood estimators for the exponent are a mathematically sound alternative to graphical methods. 
0704.01868	The Weil representation and Hecke operators for vector valued modular  forms	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Jan H. Bruinier, Oliver Stein	 Abstract: We define Hecke operators on vector valued modular forms transforming with the Weil representation associated to a discriminant form. We describe the properties of the corresponding algebra of Hecke operators and study the action on modular forms. 
0704.01869	On the energy spectrum of the one-dimensional Klein-Gordon Oscillator	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Nagalakshmi A Rao, B. A. Kagali	 Abstract: In the present article, we describe a method of introducing the harmonic potential into the Klein-Gordon equation, leading to genuine bound states. The eigenfunctions and eigenenergies are worked out explicitly. 
0704.01870	Band in ARPES caused by photodissociation of Landau-Pekar polarons	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:A.E.Myasnikova, E.N. Myasnikov	 Abstract: We consider decay of phonon condensate into phonons at photodissociation of the strong coupling large polaron (SCLP), when the charge carrier becomes free. Expression to calculate the band in ARPES caused by photodissociation of SCLP is obtained. The band in ARPES caused by photodissociation of strong-coupling large-radius polarons is a broad band with the shape determined by Poisson distribution. It can be structured or unstructured depending on the phonon dispersion since a distance between neighbouring lines comprising the band is the phonon energy. Half-width of the band is in the interval 1.3 - 1.7Ep, depending on the phonon energy. The band maximum is situated approximately at the electron energy Ephot-W-3.2Ep (where Ephot is the photon energy, W is work function), and its position does not depend on the electron wave vector direction. 
0704.01871	From Global to Local Dynamics: Effects of the Expansion on Astrophysical  Structures	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:A. Balaguera-Antolinez, M. Nowakowski	 Abstract: We explore the effects of background cosmology on large scale structures with non-spherical symmetry by using the concept of quasi-equilibrium which allows certain internal properties (e.g. angular velocity) of the bodies to change with time. In accordance with the discovery of the accelerated phase of the universe we model the cosmological background by two representative models: the $\Lambda$CDM Model and the Chaplygin Gas Model. We compare the effects of the two models on various properties of large astrophysical objects. Different equations of state are also invoked in the investigation. 
0704.01872	Evidence for nonmonotonic magnetic field penetration in a type-I  superconductor	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:V.F. Kozhevnikov, C.V. Giuraniuc, M.J. Van Bael, K. Temst, C. Van Haesendonck, T.M. Mishonov, T. Charlton, R.M. Dalgliesh, Yu.N. Khaidukov, Yu.V. Nikitenko, V.L. Aksenov, V.N. Gladilin, V.M. Fomin, J.T. Devreese, J.O. Indekeu	 Abstract: Polarized neutron reflectometry (PNR) provides evidence that nonlocal electrodynamics governs the magnetic field penetration in an extreme low-k superconductor. The sample is an indium film with a large elastic mean free path (11 mkm) deposited on a silicon oxide wafer. It is shown that PNR can resolve the difference between the reflected neutron spin asymmetries predicted by the local and nonlocal theories of superconductivity. The experimental data support the nonlocal theory, which predicts a nonmonotonic decay of the magnetic field. 
0704.01873	An Achievable Rate Region for Interference Channels with Conferencing	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Yi Cao, Biao Chen	 Abstract: In this paper, we propose an achievable rate region for discrete memoryless interference channels with conferencing at the transmitter side. We employ superposition block Markov encoding, combined with simultaneous superposition coding, dirty paper coding, and random binning to obtain the achievable rate region. We show that, under respective conditions, the proposed achievable region reduces to Han and Kobayashi achievable region for interference channels, the capacity region for degraded relay channels, and the capacity region for the Gaussian vector broadcast channel. Numerical examples for the Gaussian case are given. 
0704.01874	Electromagnetic Pulse Propagation over Nonuniform Earth Surface:  Numerical Simulation	Numerical Analysis (math.NA)	Authors:Alexei V. Popov, Vladimir V. Kopeikin	 Abstract: We simulate EM pulse propagation along the nonuniform earth surface using so called time-domain parabolic equation. To solve it by finite differences, we introduce a time-domain analog of the impedance boundary condition and a nonlocal BC of transparency reducing open computational domain to a strip of finite width. Numerical examples demonstrate influence of soil conductivity on the wide-band pulse waveform. For a high-frequency modulated EM pulse, we develop an asymptotic approach based on the ray structure of the monochromatic wave field at carrier frequency. This radically diminishes the computation costs and allows for pulsed wave field calculation in vast domains measured by tens of thousands wavelengths. 
0704.01875	Simulation of Graphene Nanoribbon Field Effect Transistors	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:G. Fiori, G. Iannaccone	 Abstract: We present an atomistic three-dimensional simulation of graphene nanoribbon field effect transistors (GNR-FETs), based on the self-consistent solution of the 3D Poisson and Schroedinger equation with open boundary conditions within the non-equilibrium Green's Function formalism and a tight-binding hamiltonian. With respect to carbon nanotube FETs, GNR-FETs exhibit comparable performance, reduced sensitivity on the variability of channel chirality, and similar leakage problems due to band-to-band tunneling. Acceptable transistor performance requires effective nanoribbon width of 1-2 nm, that could be obtained with periodic etching patterns or stress patterns. 
0704.01876	Stars and the holographic upper bound on gravitational action	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Scott Funkhouser	 Abstract: The holographic upper bound on entropy is applied to the gravitational action associated with the non-relativistic contraction of a nebula. A critical radius is identified, as a function of the initial radius and mass, for which the number of bits associated with the action would equal the maximum number of bits allowed to the body. The gravitational action of a typical star approximately saturates the holographic bound, perhaps suggesting a physical link between holographic principles and astrophysical processes. 
0704.01877	New versions of Schur-Weyl duality	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Stephen Doty	 Abstract: After reviewing classical Schur-Weyl duality, we present some other contexts which enjoy similar features, relating to Brauer algebras and classical groups. 
0704.01878	Orbital-Free Density Functional Theory: Kinetic Potentials and Ab-Initio  Local Pseudopotentials	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Jeng-Da Chai, John D Weeks	 Abstract: In the density functional (DF) theory of Kohn and Sham, the kinetic energy of the ground state of a system of noninteracting electrons in a general external field is calculated using a set of orbitals. Orbital free methods attempt to calculate this directly from the electron density by approximating the universal but unknown kinetic energy density functional. However simple local approximations are inaccurate and it has proved very difficult to devise generally accurate nonlocal approximations. We focus instead on the kinetic potential, the functional derivative of the kinetic energy DF, which appears in the Euler equation for the electron density. We argue that the kinetic potential is more local and more amenable to simple physically motivated approximations in many relevant cases, and describe two pathways by which the value of the kinetic energy can be efficiently calculated. We propose two nonlocal orbital free kinetic potentials that reduce to known exact forms for both slowly varying and rapidly varying perturbations and also reproduce exact results for the linear response of the density of the homogeneous system to small perturbations. A simple and systematic approach for generating accurate and weak ab-initio local pseudopotentials which produce a smooth slowly varying valence component of the electron density is proposed for use in orbital free DF calculations of molecules and solids. The use of these local pseudopotentials further minimizes the possible errors from the kinetic potentials. Our theory yields results for the total energies and ionization energies of atoms, and for the shell structure in the atomic radial density profiles that are in very good agreement with calculations using the full Kohn-Sham theory. 
0704.01879	Lower bounds in some power sum problems	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Johan Andersson	 Abstract: We study the power sum problem max_{v=1,...,m} | sum_{k=1}^n z_k^v | and by using features of Fejer kernels we give new lower bounds in the case of unimodular complex numbers z_k and m cn^2 for constants c>1. 
0704.01880	Quantum Quenches in Extended Systems	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Pasquale Calabrese, John Cardy	 Abstract: We study in general the time-evolution of correlation functions in a extended quantum system after the quench of a parameter in the hamiltonian. We show that correlation functions in d dimensions can be extracted using methods of boundary critical phenomena in d+1 dimensions. For d=1 this allows to use the powerful tools of conformal field theory in the case of critical evolution. Several results are obtained in generic dimension in the gaussian (mean-field) approximation. These predictions are checked against the real-time evolution of some solvable models that allows also to understand which features are valid beyond the critical evolution. All our findings may be explained in terms of a picture generally valid, whereby quasiparticles, entangled over regions of the order of the correlation length in the initial state, then propagate with a finite speed through the system. Furthermore we show that the long-time results can be interpreted in terms of a generalized Gibbs ensemble. We discuss some open questions and possible future developments. 
0704.01881	Statistical Properties of Many Particle Eigenfunctions	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Eric J. Heller, Brian R. Landry	 Abstract: Wavefunction correlations and density matrices for few or many particles are derived from the properties of semiclassical energy Green functions. Universal features of fixed energy (microcanonical) random wavefunction correlation functions appear which reflect the emergence of the canonical ensemble as the number of particles approaches infinity. This arises through a little known asymptotic limit of Bessel functions. Constraints due to symmetries, boundaries, and collisions between particles can be included. 
0704.01882	The power of choice in network growth	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Raissa M. D'Souza, Paul L. Krapivsky, Cristopher Moore	 Abstract: The "power of choice" has been shown to radically alter the behavior of a number of randomized algorithms. Here we explore the effects of choice on models of tree and network growth. In our models each new node has k randomly chosen contacts, where k > 1 is a constant. It then attaches to whichever one of these contacts is most desirable in some sense, such as its distance from the root or its degree. Even when the new node has just two choices, i.e., when k=2, the resulting network can be very different from a random graph or tree. For instance, if the new node attaches to the contact which is closest to the root of the tree, the distribution of depths changes from Poisson to a traveling wave solution. If the new node attaches to the contact with the smallest degree, the degree distribution is closer to uniform than in a random graph, so that with high probability there are no nodes in the network with degree greater than O(log log N). Finally, if the new node attaches to the contact with the largest degree, we find that the degree distribution is a power law with exponent -1 up to degrees roughly equal to k, with an exponential cutoff beyond that; thus, in this case, we need k >> 1 to see a power law over a wide range of degrees. 
0704.01883	Terahertz Time-Domain Magnetospectroscopy of a High-Mobility  Two-Dimensional Electron Gas	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:X. Wang, D. J. Hilton, L. Ren, D. M. Mittleman, J. Kono, J. L. Reno	 Abstract: We have observed cyclotron resonance in a high-mobility GaAs/AlGaAs two-dimensional electron gas by using the techniques of terahertz time-domain spectroscopy combined with magnetic fields. From this, we calculate the real and imaginary parts of the diagonal elements of the magnetoconductivity tensor, which in turn allows us to extract the concentration, effective mass, and scattering time of the electrons in the sample. We demonstrate the utility of ultrafast terahertz spectroscopy, which can recover the true linewidth of cyclotron resonance in a high-mobility ($>{10}^{6} \mathrm{cm^{2} V^{-1} s^{-1}}$) sample without being affected by the saturation effect. 
0704.01884	Coloring ordinals by reals	Logic (math.LO)	Authors:Jörg Brendle, Sakaé Fuchino	 Abstract: We study combinatorial principles we call Homogeneity Principle HP(\kappa) and Injectivity Principle IP(\kappa,\lambda) for regular \kappa>\aleph_1 and \lambda\leq\kappa which are formulated in terms of coloring the ordinals <\kappa by reals. 
0704.01885	Evolution favors protein mutational robustness in sufficiently large  populations	Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)	Authors:Jesse D. Bloom, Zhongyi Lu, David Chen, Alpan Raval, Ophelia S. Venturelli, Frances H. Arnold	 Abstract: BACKGROUND: An important question is whether evolution favors properties such as mutational robustness or evolvability that do not directly benefit any individual, but can influence the course of future evolution. Functionally similar proteins can differ substantially in their robustness to mutations and capacity to evolve new functions, but it has remained unclear whether any of these differences might be due to evolutionary selection for these properties. RESULTS: Here we use laboratory experiments to demonstrate that evolution favors protein mutational robustness if the evolving population is sufficiently large. We neutrally evolve cytochrome P450 proteins under identical selection pressures and mutation rates in populations of different sizes, and show that proteins from the larger and thus more polymorphic population tend towards higher mutational robustness. Proteins from the larger population also evolve greater stability, a biophysical property that is known to enhance both mutational robustness and evolvability. The excess mutational robustness and stability is well described by existing mathematical theories, and can be quantitatively related to the way that the proteins occupy their neutral network. CONCLUSIONS: Our work is the first experimental demonstration of the general tendency of evolution to favor mutational robustness and protein stability in highly polymorphic populations. We suggest that this phenomenon may contribute to the mutational robustness and evolvability of viruses and bacteria that exist in large populations. 
0704.01886	An algebraic generalization of Kripke structures	Logic (math.LO)	Authors:Sérgio Marcelino, Pedro Resende	 Abstract: The Kripke semantics of classical propositional normal modal logic is made algebraic via an embedding of Kripke structures into the larger class of pointed stably supported quantales. This algebraic semantics subsumes the traditional algebraic semantics based on lattices with unary operators, and it suggests natural interpretations of modal logic, of possible interest in the applications, in structures that arise in geometry and analysis, such as foliated manifolds and operator algebras, via topological groupoids and inverse semigroups. We study completeness properties of the quantale based semantics for the systems K, T, K4, S4, and S5, in particular obtaining an axiomatization for S5 which does not use negation or the modal necessity operator. As additional examples we describe intuitionistic propositional modal logic, the logic of programs PDL, and the ramified temporal logic CTL. 
0704.01887	Origin of the 60K plateau in YBa_2Cu_3O_6+x	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:V. M. Matic, N. Dj. Lazarov	 Abstract: A model for charge transfer mechanism in YBa2Cu3O6+x high-Tc cuprate based on critical chain length concept is proposed to account for 60K and 90K plateaus in Tc(x) dependence. It has been shown, when the statistics of CuO chain formation was described in terms of two dimensional asymmetric next-to-nearest neighbor Ising (ASYNNNI) model, that at any constant temperature below the top of OII phase there exists a uniquely defined value of critical chain length lcr(T) that yields a constant doping p(x)=const over the regime of OII phase (related to 60K plateau of Tc(x)), while 90K plateau coincides with the monotonously increasing p(x) over optimal doping level p=0.16 in the regime of OI phase. Short length chains (l<lcr(T)), together with the first lcr(T)-2 holes in longer chains (l>lcr(T)), are taken as not capable of attracting electrons from CuO2 planes.. It is shown that only a part (41%) of the remaining l-lcr(T)+1 holes in the long chains can capture electrons. The results obtained indicate that the ASYNNNI model and two-plateaus-like behavior of Tc(x) in YBa2Cu3O6+x are closely connected. 
0704.01888	N-homogeneous superalgebras	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Phung Ho Hai, Benoit Kriegk, Martin Lorenz	 Abstract: We develop the theory of N-homogeneous algebras in a super setting, with particular emphasis on the Koszul property. To any Hecke operator on a vector superspace, we associate certain superalgebras and generalizing the ordinary symmetric and Grassmann algebra, respectively. We prove that these algebras are N-Koszul. For the special case where the Hecke operator is the ordinary supersymmetry, we derive an $N$-generalized super-version of MacMahon's classical "master theorem". 
0704.01889	First and second sound modes at finite temperature in trapped Fermi  gases from BCS to BEC	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Yan He, Qijin Chen, Chih-Chun Chien, K. Levin	 Abstract: We determine the temperature $T$ dependence of first and second sound mode frequencies for trapped Fermi gases undergoing BCS to Bose Einstein condensation (BEC) crossover. Our results are based on the two fluid equations in conjunction with a microscopic calculation of thermodynamical variables. As in experiment and at unitarity, we show that the lowest radial breathing mode is $T$ independent. At finite $T$, higher order breathing modes strongly mix with second sound. Their complex $T$ dependence should provide an alternative way of measuring the transition temperature, $T_c$. 
0704.01890	Computation and visualization of Casimir forces in arbitrary geometries:  non-monotonic lateral forces and failure of proximity-force approximations	Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)	Authors:Alejandro Rodriguez, Mihai Ibanescu, Davide Iannuzzi, Federico Capasso, John D. Joannopoulos, Steven G. Johnson	 Abstract: We present a method of computing Casimir forces for arbitrary geometries, with any desired accuracy, that can directly exploit the efficiency of standard numerical-electromagnetism techniques. Using the simplest possible finite-difference implementation of this approach, we obtain both agreement with past results for cylinder-plate geometries, and also present results for new geometries. In particular, we examine a piston-like problem involving two dielectric and metallic squares sliding between two metallic walls, in two and three dimensions, respectively, and demonstrate non-additive and non-monotonic changes in the force due to these lateral walls. 
0704.01891	Axioms for a local Reidemeister trace in fixed point and coincidence  theory on differentiable manifolds	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:P. Christopher Staecker	 Abstract: We give axioms which characterize the local Reidemeister trace for orientable differentiable manifolds. The local Reidemeister trace in fixed point theory is already known, and we provide both uniqueness and existence results for the local Reidemeister trace in coincidence theory. 
0704.01892	On (n+2)-dimensional n-Lie algebras	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Donald W. Barnes	 Abstract: I show that an (n+2)-dimensional n-Lie algebra over an algebraically closed field must have a subalgeba of codimension 1. 
0704.01893	Elastic properties of vanadium pentoxide aggregates and topological  defects	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:L. V. Elnikova	 Abstract: We study the aqueous solution of vanadium pentoxide by using topology methods. The experiments by Zocher, Kaznacheev, and Dogic exhibited, that in the sol phases of $V_2O_5-H_2O$, the tactoid droplets of $V_2O_5$ can coalesce. In the magnetic field, this effect is associated with a gauge field action, viz. we consider coalescence (in the topologically more convenient term, "junction") of droplets as annihilation of topological defects, concerning with the tactoid geometry. We have shown, that in the magnetic field, the tactoid junction is mainly caused by non-Abelian monopoles (vortons), whereas the Abelian defects almost do not annihilate. Taking into account this annihilation mechanism, the estimations of time-aging of the $V_2O_5-H_2O$ sols may be specified 
0704.01894	Non-Associativity of Lorentz Transformation and Associative Reflection  Symmetric Transformation	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Mushfiq Ahmad, M. Shah Alam	 Abstract: Each of the two moving observers observes the relative velocity of the other. The two velocities should be equal and opposite. We have shown that this relativistic requirement is not fulfilled by Lorentz transformation. We have also shown that the reason is that Lorentz transformation is not associative. Reciprocal symmetric transformation is associative and fulfills relativistic requirements. 
0704.01895	Jamming dynamics in grain mixtures : An extended hydrodynamic approach	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Supurna Sinha	 Abstract: We study jamming in granular mixtures from the novel point of view of extended hydrodynamics. Using a hard sphere binary mixture model we predict that a few large grains are expected to get caged more effectively in a matrix of small grains compared to a few small grains in a matrix of larger ones. A similar effect has been experimentally seen in the context of colloidal mixtures. 
0704.01896	Path Distinguishability in Double Scattering of Light by Atoms	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Christian Miniatura, Cord A. Müller, Yin Lu, Guangquan Wang, Berthold-Georg Englert	 Abstract: Wave-particle duality finds a natural application for electrons or light propagating in disordered media where coherent corrections to transport are given by two-wave interference. For scatterers with internal degrees of freedom, these corrections are observed to be much smaller than would be expected for structureless scatterers. By examining the basic example of the scattering of one photon by two spin-1/2 atoms--a case-study for coherent backscattering--we demonstrate that the loss of interference strength is associated with which-path information stored by the scattering atoms. 
0704.01897	Constraints on transmission, dispersion, and density of states in  dielectric multilayers and stepwise potential barriers with arbitrary layer  arrangement	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:S. V. Zhukovsky, S. V. Gaponenko	 Abstract: Normal-incidence transmission and dispersion properties of optical multilayers and one-dimensional stepwise potential barriers in the non-tunneling regime are analytically investigated. The optical paths of every constituent layer in a multilayer structure, as well as the parameters of every step of the stepwise potential barrier, are constrained by a generalized quarter-wave condition. No other restrictions on the structure geometry is imposed, i.e., the layers are arranged arbitrarily. We show that the density of states (DOS) spectra of the multilayer or barrier in question are subject to integral conservation rules similar to the Barnett-Loudon sum rule but ocurring within a finite frequency or energy interval. In the optical case, these frequency intervals are regular. For the potential barriers, only non-periodic energy intervals can be present in the spectrum of any given structure, and only if the parameters of constituent potential steps are properly chosen. Abstract The integral conservation relations derived analytically have also been verified numerically. The relations can be used in dispersion-engineered multilayer-based devices, e.g., ultrashort pulse compressors or ultracompact optical delay lines, as well as to design multiple-quantum-well electronic heterostructures with engineered DOS. 
0704.01898	Electromagnetic Casimir densities for a wedge with a coaxial cylindrical  shell	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:A.A. Saharian	 Abstract: Vacuum expectation values of the field square and the energy-momentum tensor for the electromagnetic field are investigated for the geometry of a wedge with a coaxal cylindrical boundary. All boundaries are assumed to be perfectly conducting and both regions inside and outside the shell are considered. By using the generalized Abel-Plana formula, the vacuum expectation values are presented in the form of the sum of two terms. The first one corresponds to the geometry of the wedge without the cylindrical shell and the second term is induced by the presence of the shell. The vacuum energy density induced by the shell is negative for the interior region and is positive for the exterior region. The asymptotic behavior of the vacuum expectation values are investigated in various limiting cases. It is shown that the vacuum forces acting on the wedge sides due to the presence of the cylindrical boundary are always attractive. 
0704.01899	Progenitors of Long Gamma-ray Bursts	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Melvyn B. Davies, Andrew J. Levan, Josefin Larsson, Andrew R. King, Andrew S. Fruchter	 Abstract: Pinpointing the progenitors of long duration gamma-ray bursts (LGRBs) remains an extremely important question, although it is now clear that at least a fraction of LGRBs originate in the core collapse of massive stars in type Ic supernovae, the pathways to the production of these stars, and their initial masses, remain uncertain. Rotation is thought to be vital in the creation of LGRBs, and it is likely that black hole creation is also necessary. We suggest that these two constraints can be met if the GRB progenitors are very massive stars (>20 solar masses) and are formed in tight binary systems. Using simple models we compare the predictions of this scenario with observations and find that the location of GRBs on their host galaxies are suggestive of main-sequence masses in excess of 20 solar masses, while 50% of the known compact binary systems may have been sufficiently close to have had the necessary rotation rates for GRB creation. Thus, massive stars in compact binaries are a likely channel for at least some fraction of LGRBs. 
0704.01900	Causal vs. Analytic constraints on anomalous quartic gauge couplings	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Luca Vecchi	 Abstract: We derive one loop constraints on the anomalous quartic gauge couplings using a general non-forward dispersion relation for the elastic scattering amplitude of two longitudinally polarized vector bosons. We compare this result with another one derived by the assumption that the underlying theory satisfies the causality principle of Special Relativity and show that this latter is more constraining. 
0704.01901	Classical Information Capacity of the Bosonic Broadcast Channel	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Saikat Guha, Jeffrey H. Shapiro	 Abstract: We show that when coherent-state encoding is employed in conjunction with coherent detection, the Bosonic broadcast channel is equivalent to a classical degraded Gaussian broadcast channel whose capacity region is dual to that of the classical Gaussian multiple-access channel. We further show that if a minimum output-entropy conjecture holds true, then the ultimate classical information capacity of the Bosonic broadcast channel can be achieved by a coherent-state encoding. We provide some evidence in support of the conjecture. 
0704.01902	Interplay of Anisotropy and Disorder in the Doping-Dependent Melting and  Glass Transitions of Vortices in Bi$_2$Sr$_2$CaCu$_2$O$_{8+δ}$	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:H. Beidenkopf, T. Verdene, Y. Myasoedov, H. Shtrikman, E. Zeldov, B. Rosenstein, D. Li, T. Tamegai	 Abstract: We study the oxygen doping dependence of the equilibrium first-order melting and second-order glass transitions of vortices in Bi$_2$Sr$_2$CaCu$_2$O$_{8+\delta}$. Doping affects both anisotropy and disorder. Anisotropy scaling is shown to collapse the melting lines only where thermal fluctuations are dominant. Yet, in the region where disorder breaks that scaling, the glass lines are still collapsed. A quantitative fit to melting and replica symmetry breaking lines of a 2D Ginzburg-Landau model further reveals that disorder amplitude weakens with doping, but to a lesser degree than thermal fluctuations, enhancing the relative role of disorder. 
0704.01903	Growth window and possible mechanism of millimeter-thick single-walled  carbon nanotube forests	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Kei Hasegawa, Suguru Noda, Hisashi Sugime, Kazunori Kakehi, Shigeo Maruyama, Yukio Yamaguchi	 Abstract: Our group recently reproduced the water-assisted growth method, so-called "super growth", of millimeter-thick single-walled carbon nanotube (SWNT) forests by using C2H4/ H2/ H2O/ Ar reactant gas and Fe/ Al2O3 catalyst. In this current work, a parametric study was carried out on both reaction and catalyst conditions. Results revealed that a thin Fe catalyst layer (about 0.5 nm) yielded rapid growth of SWNTs only when supported on Al2O3, and that Al2O3 support enhanced the activity of Fe, Co, and Ni catalysts. The growth window for the rapid SWNT growth was narrow, however. Optimum amount of added H2O increased the SWNT growth rate but further addition of H2O degraded both the SWNT growth rate and quality. Addition of H2 was also essential for rapid SWNT growth, but again, further addition decreased both the SWNT growth rate and quality. Because Al2O3 catalyzes hydrocarbon reforming, Al2O3 support possibly enhances the SWNT growth rate by supplying the carbon source to the catalyst nanoparticles. The origin of the narrow window for rapid SWNT growth will also be discussed. 
0704.01904	Nonlocal interactions versus viscosity in turbulence	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:A. Bershadskii	 Abstract: It is shown that nonlocal interactions determine energy spectrum in isotropic turbulence at small Reynolds numbers. It is also shown that for moderate Reynolds numbers the bottleneck effect is determined by the same nonlocal interactions. Role of the large and small scales covariance at the nonlocal interactions and in energy balance has been investigated. A possible hydrodynamic mechanism of the nonlocal solution instability at large scales has been briefly discussed. A quantitative relationship between effective strain of the nonlocal interactions and viscosity has been found. All results are supported by comparison with the data of experiments and numerical simulations. 
0704.01905	Quantum radiative corrections to slow-roll inflation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ante Bilandzic (Nikhef), Tomislav Prokopec (Utrecht University)	 Abstract: We consider the nonminimally coupled lambda phi^4 scalar field theory in de Sitter space and construct the renormalization group improved renormalized effective theory at the one-loop level. Based on the corresponding quantum Friedmann equation and the scalar field equation of motion, we calculate the quantum radiative corrections to the scalar spectral index n_s, gravitational wave spectral index n_g and the ratio r of tensor to scalar perturbations. When compared with the standard (tree-level) values, we find that the quantum contributions are suppressed by lambda N^2 where N denotes the number of e-foldings. Hence there is an N^2 enhancement with respect to the naive expectation, which is due to the infrared enhancement of scalar vacuum fluctuations characterising de Sitter space. Since observations constrain lambda to be very small lambda ~ 10^(-12) and N ~ 50-60, the quantum corrections in this inflationary model are unobservably small. 
0704.01906	Ab initio wavefunction based methods for excited states in solids:  correlation corrections to the band structure of ionic oxides	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:L. Hozoi, U. Birkenheuer, P. Fulde, A. Mitrushchenkov, H. Stoll	 Abstract: Ab initio wavefunction based methods are applied to the study of electron correlation effects on the band structure of oxide systems. We choose MgO as a prototype closed-shell ionic oxide. Our analysis is based on a local Hamiltonian approach and performed on finite fragments cut from the infinite solid. Localized Wannier functions and embedding potentials are obtained from prior periodic Hartree-Fock (HF) calculations. We investigate the role of various electron correlation effects in reducing the HF band gap and modifying the band widths. On-site and nearest-neighbor charge relaxation as well as long-range polarization effects are calculated. Whereas correlation effects are essential for computing accurate band gaps, we found that they produce smaller changes on the HF band widths, at least for this material. Surprisingly, a broadening effect is obtained for the O 2p valence bands. The ab initio data are in good agreement with the energy gap and band width derived from thermoreflectance and x-ray photoemission experiments. The results show that the wavefunction based approach applied here allows for well controlled approximations and a transparent identification of the microscopic processes which determine the electronic band structure. 
0704.01907	Abundances in intermediate-mass AGB stars undergoing third dredge-up and  hot-bottom burning	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. A. McSaveney, P. R. Wood, M. Scholz, J. C. Lattanzio, K. H. Hinkle	 Abstract: High dispersion near-infrared spectra have been taken of seven highly-evolved, variable, intermediate-mass (4-6 Msun) AGB stars in the LMC and SMC in order to look for C, N and O variations that are expected to arise from third dredge-up and hot-bottom burning. The pulsation of the objects has been modelled, yielding stellar masses, and spectral synthesis calculations have been performed in order to derive abundances from the observed spectra. For two stars, abundances of C, N, O, Na, Al, Ti, Sc and Fe were derived and compared with the abundances predicted by detailed AGB models. Both stars show very large N enhancements and C deficiencies. These results provide the first observational confirmation of the long-predicted production of primary nitrogen by the combination of third dredge-up and hot-bottom burning in intermediate-mass AGB stars. It was not possible to derive abundances for the remaining five stars: three were too cool to model, while another two had strong shocks in their atmospheres which caused strong emission to fill the line cores and made abundance determination impossible. The latter occurrence allows us to predict the pulsation phase interval during which observations should be made if successful abundance analysis is to be possible. 
0704.01908	A practical guide to stochastic simulations of reaction-diffusion  processes	Subcellular Processes (q-bio.SC)	Authors:Radek Erban, Jonathan Chapman, Philip Maini	 Abstract: A practical introduction to stochastic modelling of reaction-diffusion processes is presented. No prior knowledge of stochastic simulations is assumed. The methods are explained using illustrative examples. The article starts with the classical Gillespie algorithm for the stochastic modelling of chemical reactions. Then stochastic algorithms for modelling molecular diffusion are given. Finally, basic stochastic reaction-diffusion methods are presented. The connections between stochastic simulations and deterministic models are explained and basic mathematical tools (e.g. chemical master equation) are presented. The article concludes with an overview of more advanced methods and problems. 
0704.01909	Non-linear electromagnetic response of graphene	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:S. A. Mikhailov	 Abstract: It is shown that the massless energy spectrum of electrons and holes in graphene leads to the strongly non-linear electromagnetic response of this system. We predict that the graphene layer, irradiated by electromagnetic waves, emits radiation at higher frequency harmonics and can work as a frequency multiplier. The operating frequency of the graphene frequency multiplier can lie in a broad range from microwaves to the infrared. 
0704.01910	Ellipsoidal Oscillations Induced by Substellar Companions: A Prospect  for the Kepler Mission	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Eric Pfahl (KITP), Phil Arras (UVa), Bill Paxton (KITP)	 Abstract: Hundreds of substellar companions to solar-type stars will be discovered with the Kepler satellite. Kepler's extreme photometric precision gives access to low-amplitude stellar variability contributed by a variety of physical processes. We discuss in detail the periodic flux modulations arising from the tidal force on the star due to a substellar companion. An analytic expression for the variability is derived in the equilibrium-tide approximation. We demonstrate analytically and through numerical solutions of the linear, nonadiabatic stellar oscillation equations that the equilibrium-tide formula works extremely well for stars of mass <1.4 Msun with thick surface convection zones. More massive stars with largely radiative envelopes do not conform to the equilibrium-tide approximation and can exhibit flux variations $\ga$10 times larger than naive estimates. Over the full range of stellar masses considered, we treat the oscillatory response of the convection zone by adapting a prescription that A. J. Brickhill developed for pulsating white dwarfs. Compared to other sources of periodic variability, the ellipsoidal lightcurve has a distinct dependence on time and system parameters. We suggest that ellipsoidal oscillations induced by giant planets may be detectable from as many as ~100 of the 10^5 Kepler target stars. (Abridged) 
0704.01911	Motor driven microtubule shape fluctuations - force from within the  lattice	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Herve Mohrbach, Igor M. Kulic	 Abstract: We develop a general theory of microtubule (MT) deformations by molecular motors generating internal force doublets within the MT lattice. We describe two basic internal excitations, the S and V shape, and compare them with experimental observations from literature. We explain the special role of tubulin vacancies and the dramatic deformation amplifying effect observed for katanin acting at positions of defects. Experimentally observed shapes are used to determine the ratio of MT shear and stretch moduli ($\approx 6\times10^{-5}$) and to estimate the forces induced in the MT lattice by katanin (10's of pN). For many motors acting on a single MT we derive expressions for the end-to-end distance reduction and provide criteria for dominance of this new effect over thermal fluctuations. We conclude that molecular motors if acting cooperatively can ''animate'' MTs from within the lattice and induce slack even without cross-bridging to other structures, a scenario very much reminiscent of the motor driven axoneme. 
0704.01912	Bone Cancer Rates in Dinosaurs Compared with Modern Vertebrates	Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)	Authors:L.C. Natarajan, A.L. Melott, B.M. Rothschild, L.D. Martin (University of Kansas)	 Abstract: Data on the prevalence of bone cancer in dinosaurs is available from past radiological examination of preserved bones. We statistically test this data for consistency with rates extrapolated from information on bone cancer in modern vertebrates, and find that there is no evidence of a different rate. Thus, this test provides no support for a possible role of ionizing radiation in the K-T extinction event. 
0704.01913	Effective Lagrangian for the $χ^{+}_j χ^{-}_kH^{0}_l$ interaction  in the minimal supersymmetric standard model and neutral Higgs decays	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Tarek Ibrahim	 Abstract: We extend previous analyses of the supersymmetric loop correction to the neutral Higgs couplings to include the coupling $\chi^{+}_j \chi^{-}_kH^{0}_l$. The analysis completes the previous analyses where similar corrections were computed for the $\bar{\tau} \tau H^{0}_l$, $\bar{b} b H^{0}_l$, $\bar{c} c H^{0}_l$ and for $\bar{t} t H^{0}_l$ couplings within the minimal supersymmetric standard model. The effective one loop Lagrangian is then applied to the computation of the neutral Higgs decays. The sizes of the supersymmetric loop corrections of the neutral Higgs decay widths into $\chi^{+}_i \chi^{-}_j$ ($i=1,2$; $j=1,2$) are investigated and the supersymmetric loop correction is found to be in the range of $7\sim15%$ in significant regions of the parameter space. By including the loop corrections of the other decay channels $\bar{b} b$, $\bar{t} t$, $\bar{\tau} \tau$, $\bar{c} c$, and $\chi^0_i \chi^0_j$ ($i=1-4$; $j=1-4$), the corrections to branching ratios for $H^{0}_l\to \chi^{+}_i \chi^{-}_j$ can reach as high as 40%. The effects of CP phases on the branching ratio are also investigated. 
0704.01914	Finite Representations of the braid group commutator subgroup	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Abdelouahab Arouche (LATN)	 Abstract: We study the representations of the commutator subgroup K_{n} of the braid group B_{n} into a finite group . This is done through a symbolic dynamical system. Some experimental results enable us to compute the number of subgroups of K_{n} of a given (finite) index, and, as a by-product, to recover the well known fact that every representation of K_{n} into S_{r}, with n > r, must be trivial. 
0704.01915	Thermal inertia of near-Earth asteroids and implications for the  magnitude of the Yarkovsky effect	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Marco Delbo (INAF-Osservatorio Astronomico Di Torino, Oca), Aldo Dell'oro (INAF-Osservatorio Astronomico Di Torino), Alan W. Harris (DLR Institute of Planetary Research), Stefano Mottola (DLR Institute of Planetary Research), Michael Mueller (DLR Institute of Planetary Research)	 Abstract: Thermal inertia determines the temperature distribution over the surface of an asteroid and therefore governs the magnitude the Yarkovsky effect. The latter causes gradual drifting of the orbits of km-sized asteroids and plays an important role in the delivery of near-Earth asteroids (NEAs) from the main belt and in the dynamical spreading of asteroid families. At present, very little is known about the thermal inertia of asteroids in the km size range. Here we show that the average thermal inertia of a sample of NEAs in the km-size range is 200 $\pm$ 40 J m&#8722;2 s&#8722;0.5 K&#8722;1. Furthermore, we identify a trend of increasing thermal inertia with decreasing asteroid diameter, D. This indicates that the dependence of the drift rate of the orbital semimajor axis on the size of asteroids due to the Yarkovsky effect is a more complex function than the generally adopted D^(&#8722;1) dependence, and that the size distribution of objects injected by Yarkovsky-driven orbital mobility into the NEA source regions is less skewed to smaller sizes than generally assumed. We discuss how this fact may help to explain the small difference in the slope of the size distribution of km-sized NEAs and main-belt asteroids. 
0704.01916	Solutions of certain fractional kinetic equations and a fractional  diffusion equation	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:R.K. Saxena, A.M. Mathai, H.J. Haubold	 Abstract: In view of the usefulness and importance of the kinetic equation in certain physical problems, the authors derive the explicit solution of a fractional kinetic equation of general character, that unifies and extends earlier results. Further, an alternative shorter method based on a result developed by the authors is given to derive the solution of a fractional diffusion equation. 
0704.01917	Strong enhancement of transport by interaction on contact links	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Dan Bohr, Peter Schmitteckert	 Abstract: Strong repulsive interactions within a one dimensional Fermi system in a two-probe configuration normally lead to a reduced off-resonance conductance. We show that if the repulsive interaction extends to the contact regions, a strong increase of the conductance may occur, even for systems where one would expect to find a reduced conductance. An essential ingredient in our calculations is a momentum-space representation of the leads, which allows a high energy resolution. Further, we demonstrate that these results are independent of the high-energy cutoff and that the relevant scale is set by the Fermi velocity. 
0704.01918	Quantum Filtering of Optical Coherent States	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:C. Wittmann, D. Elser, U. L. Andersen, R. Filip, P. Marek, G. Leuchs	 Abstract: We propose and experimentally demonstrate non-destructive and noiseless removal (filtering) of vacuum states from an arbitrary set of coherent states of continuous variable systems. Errors i.e. vacuum states in the quantum information are diagnosed through a weak measurement, and on that basis, probabilistically filtered out. We consider three different filters based on on/off detection phase stabilized and phase randomized homodyne detection. We find that on/off etection, optimal in the ideal theoretical setting, is superior to the homodyne strategy in a practical setting. 
0704.01919	Interpreting and predicting the yield of transit surveys: Giant planets  in the OGLE fields	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Francois Fressin (LG), Tristan Guillot (OCA), Vincent Morello (OCA), Frédéric Pont	 Abstract: Transiting extrasolar planets are now discovered jointly by photometric surveys and by radial velocimetry. We want to determine whether the different data sets are compatible between themselves and with models of the evolution of extrasolar planets. We simulate directly a population of stars corresponding to the OGLE transit survey and assign them planetary companions based on radial velocimetry discoveries. We use a model of the evolution and structure of giant planets assuming a variable fraction of heavy elements. The output list of detectable planets of the simulations is compared to the real detections. We confirm that the radial velocimetry and photometric survey data sets are compatible within the statistical errors, assuming that planets with periods between 1 and 2 days are approximately 5 times less frequent than planets with periods between 2 and 5 days. We show that evolution models fitting present observational constraints predict a lack of small giant planets with large masses. We also identify distinct populations of planets: those with short periods (P < 10d) are only found in orbit around metal-rich stars with [Fe/H] > -0.07. We further confirm the relative absence of low-mass giant planets at small orbital distances. 
0704.01920	Global Disk Oscillation Modes in Cataclysmic Variables and Other  Newtonian Accretors	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Manuel Ortega-Rodriguez, Robert V. Wagoner	 Abstract: Diskoseismology, the theoretical study of small adiabatic hydrodynamical global perturbations of geometrically thin, optically thick accretion disks around black holes (and other compact objects), is a potentially powerful probe of the gravitational field. For instance, the frequencies of the normal mode oscillations can be used to determine the elusive angular momentum parameter of the black hole. The general formalism developed by diskoseismologists for relativistic systems can be readily applied to the Newtonian case of cataclysmic variables (CVs). Some of these systems (e.g., the dwarf nova SS Cygni) show rapid oscillations in the UV with periods of tens of seconds and high coherence. In this paper, we assess the possibility that these dwarf nova oscillations (DNOs) are diskoseismic modes. Besides its importance in investigating the physical origin of DNOs, the present work could help us to answer the following question. To what extent are the similarities in the oscillation phenomenology of CVs and X-ray binaries (XRBs) indicative of a common physical mechanism? 
0704.01921	Quantum molecular dynamics study of the pressure dependence of the  ammonia inversion transition	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:I.M.Herbauts, D.J.Dunstan	 Abstract: The mechanism of the shift, broadening and quenching of the ammonia inversion frequency with gas pressure has been a problem of lively interest for over seventy years. A simple quantum model of the ammonia molecule perturbed by collisions with ideal gas molecules displays the essential features of the experimental data for NH3 and for ND3. The model does not display the behaviour expected from theories of quantum localisation such as quantum state diffusion and decoherence. On the other hand, models of perturbed classical oscillators do display similar behaviour to our model. The quenching of the ammonia inversion transition cannot therefore be interpreted as spatial localisation of the wavefunction. 
0704.01922	Relative Rigidity, Quasiconvexity and C-Complexes	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Mahan Mj	 Abstract: We introduce and study the notion of relative rigidity for pairs $(X,\JJ)$ where 1) $X$ is a hyperbolic metric space and $\JJ$ a collection of quasiconvex sets 2) $X$ is a relatively hyperbolic group and $\JJ$ the collection of parabolics 3) $X$ is a higher rank symmetric space and $\JJ$ an equivariant collection of maximal flats Relative rigidity can roughly be described as upgrading a uniformly proper map between two such $\JJ$'s to a quasi-isometry between the corresponding $X$'s. A related notion is that of a $C$-complex which is the adaptation of a Tits complex to this context. We prove the relative rigidity of the collection of pairs $(X, \JJ)$ as above. This generalises a result of Schwarz for symmetric patterns of geodesics in hyperbolic space. We show that a uniformly proper map induces an isomorphism of the corresponding $C$-complexes. We also give a couple of characterizations of quasiconvexity. of subgroups of hyperbolic groups on the way. 
0704.01923	Theory of enhanced second-harmonic generation by the quadrupole-dipole  hybrid exciton	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Oleksiy Roslyak, Joseph L. Birman	 Abstract: We report calculated substantial enhancement of the second harmonic generation (SHG) in cuprous oxide crystals resonantly hybridized with an appropriate organic material (DCM2:CA:PS 'solid-state solvent'). The quadrupole origin of the inorganic part of the quadrupole-dipole hybrid provides inversion symmetry breaking and the organic part contributes to the oscillator strength of the hybrid. We show that the enhancement of the SHG, compared to bulk cuprous oxide crystal, is proportional to the ratio of the DCM2 dipole moment and the effective dipole moment of the quadrupole transitions in the cuprous oxide. It is also inversely proportional to the line-width of the hybrid and bulk excitons. The enhancement may be regulated by adjusting the organic blend (mutual concentration of the DCM2 and CA part of the solvent) and pumping conditions(varying the angle of incidence in case of optical pumping or populating the minimum of the lower branch of the hybrid in case of electrical pumping). 
0704.01924	Error Estimation and Atomistic-Continuum Adaptivity for the  Quasicontinuum Approximation of a Frenkel-Kontorova Model	Numerical Analysis (math.NA)	Authors:Marcel Arndt, Mitchell Luskin	 Abstract: We propose and analyze a goal-oriented a posteriori error estimator for the atomistic-continuum modeling error in the quasicontinuum method. Based on this error estimator, we develop an algorithm which adaptively determines the atomistic and continuum regions to compute a quantity of interest to within a given tolerance. We apply the algorithm to the computation of the structure of a crystallographic defect described by a Frenkel-Kontorova model and present the results of numerical experiments. The numerical results show that our method gives an efficient estimate of the error and a nearly optimal atomistic-continuum modeling strategy. 
0704.01925	Blind Identification of Distributed Antenna Systems with Multiple  Carrier Frequency Offsets	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Yuanning Yu, Athina P. Petropulu, H. Vincent Poor	 Abstract: In spatially distributed multiuser antenna systems, the received signal contains multiple carrier-frequency offsets (CFOs) arising from mismatch between the oscillators of transmitters and receivers. This results in a time-varying rotation of the data constellation, which needs to be compensated at the receiver before symbol recovery. In this paper, a new approach for blind CFO estimation and symbol recovery is proposed. The received base-band signal is over-sampled, and its polyphase components are used to formulate a virtual Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (MIMO) problem. By applying blind MIMO system estimation techniques, the system response can be estimated and decoupled versions of the user symbols can be recovered, each one of which contains a distinct CFO. By applying a decision feedback Phase Lock Loop (PLL), the CFO can be mitigated and the transmitted symbols can be recovered. The estimated MIMO system response provides information about the CFOs that can be used to initialize the PLL, speed up its convergence, and avoid ambiguities usually linked with PLL. 
0704.01926	The Distribution of the first Eigenvalue Spacing at the Hard Edge of the  Laguerre Unitary Ensemble	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Peter J. Forrester, Nicholas S. Witte	 Abstract: The distribution function for the first eigenvalue spacing in the Laguerre unitary ensemble of finite rank random matrices is found in terms of a Painlev\'e V system, and the solution of its associated linear isomonodromic system. In particular it is characterised by the polynomial solutions to the isomonodromic equations which are also orthogonal with respect to a deformation of the Laguerre weight. In the scaling to the hard edge regime we find an analogous situation where a certain Painlev\'e \IIId system and its associated linear isomonodromic system characterise the scaled distribution. We undertake extensive analytical studies of this system and use this knowledge to accurately compute the distribution and its moments for various values of the parameter $ a $. In particular choosing $ a=\pm 1/2 $ allows the first eigenvalue spacing distribution for random real orthogonal matrices to be computed. 
0704.01927	Second-order perturbations of cosmological fluids: Relativistic effects  of pressure, multi-component, curvature, and rotation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. Hwang, H. Noh	 Abstract: We present general relativistic correction terms appearing in Newton's gravity to the second-order perturbations of cosmological fluids. In our previous work we have shown that to the second-order perturbations, the density and velocity perturbation equations of general relativistic zero-pressure, irrotational, single-component fluid in a flat background coincide exactly with the ones known in Newton's theory. Here, we present the general relativistic second-order correction terms arising due to (i) pressure, (ii) multi-component, (iii) background curvature, and (iv) rotation. In case of multi-component zero-pressure, irrotational fluids under the flat background, we effectively do not have relativistic correction terms, thus the relativistic result again coincides with the Newtonian ones. In the other three cases we generally have pure general relativistic correction terms. In case of pressure, the relativistic corrections appear even in the level of background and linear perturbation equations. In the presence of background curvature, or rotation, pure relativistic correction terms directly appear in the Newtonian equations of motion of density and velocity perturbations to the second order. In the small-scale limit (far inside the horizon), relativistic equations including the rotation coincide with the ones in Newton's gravity. 
0704.01928	Highly turbulent solutions of LANS-alpha and their LES potential	Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)	Authors:J. Pietarila Graham (1 and 2), Darryl Holm (3 and 4), Pablo Mininni (1 and 5), Annick Pouquet (1) ((1) National Center for Atmospheric Research, Boulder, USA, (2) Max Planck Institute for Solar System Research, Katlenburg-Lindau, Germany, (3) Department of Mathematics, Imperial College London, UK, (4) Computer and Computational Science Division, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, USA (5) Departamento de Fisica, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina)	 Abstract: We compute solutions of the Lagrangian-Averaged Navier-Stokes alpha-model (LANS) for significantly higher Reynolds numbers (up to Re 8300) than have previously been accomplished. This allows sufficient separation of scales to observe a Navier-Stokes (NS) inertial range followed by a 2nd LANS inertial range. The analysis of the third-order structure function scaling supports the predicted l^3 scaling; it corresponds to a k^(-1) scaling of the energy spectrum. The energy spectrum itself shows a different scaling which goes as k^1. This latter spectrum is consistent with the absence of stretching in the sub-filter scales due to the Taylor frozen-in hypothesis employed as a closure in the derivation of LANS. These two scalings are conjectured to coexist in different spatial portions of the flow. The l^3 (E(k) k^(-1)) scaling is subdominant to k^1 in the energy spectrum, but the l^3 scaling is responsible for the direct energy cascade, as no cascade can result from motions with no internal degrees of freedom. We verify the prediction for the size of the LANS attractor resulting from this scaling. From this, we give a methodology either for arriving at grid-independent solutions for LANS, or for obtaining a formulation of a LES optimal in the context of the alpha models. The fully converged grid-independent LANS may not be the best approximation to a direct numerical simulation of the NS equations since the minimum error is a balance between truncation errors and the approximation error due to using LANS instead of the primitive equations. Furthermore, the small-scale behavior of LANS contributes to a reduction of flux at constant energy, leading to a shallower energy spectrum for large alpha. These small-scale features, do not preclude LANS to reproduce correctly the intermittency properties of high Re flow. 
0704.01929	Reentrant Orbital Order and the True Ground State of LaSr2Mn2O7	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Qing'An Li, K.E. Gray, H. Zheng, H. Claus, S. Rosenkranz, S. Nyborg Ancona, R. Osborn, J.F. Mitchell, Y. Chen, J.W. Lynn	 Abstract: Contrary to conventional wisdom, our purified La2-2xSr1+2xMn2O7 crystals exhibit CE-type orbital and charge order as the low-temperature ground state for a hole doping level h = 0.5. For small deviations from h = 0.5, the high temperature CE phase is replaced at low temperatures by an A-type antiferromagnet without coexistence. Larger deviations result in a lack of CE order at any temperature. Thus, small inhomogeneities in cation or oxygen composition could explain why others commonly see this reentrance with coexistence. 
0704.01930	Addendum: A Classification of Plane Symmetric Kinematic Self-similar  Solutions	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:M. Sharif, Sehar Aziz	 Abstract: In our recent paper, we classified plane symmetric kinematic self-similar perfect fluid and dust solutions of the second, zeroth and infinite kinds. However, we have missed some solutions during the process. In this short communication, we add up those missing solutions. We have found a total of seven solutions, out of which five turn out to be independent and cannot be found in the earlier paper 
0704.01931	Weak non-linearities and cluster states	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Sebastien G.R. Louis, Kae Nemoto, W.J. Munro, T.P. Spiller	 Abstract: We propose a scalable approach to building cluster states of matter qubits using coherent states of light. Recent work on the subject relies on the use of single photonic qubits in the measurement process. These schemes have a low initial success probability and low detector efficiencies cause a serious blowup in resources. In contrast, our approach uses continuous variables and highly efficient measurements. We present a two-qubit scheme, with a simple homodyne measurement system yielding an entangling operation with success probability 1/2. Then we extend this to a three-qubit interaction, increasing this probability to 3/4. We discuss the important issues of the overhead cost and the time scaling, showing how these can be vastly improved with access to this new probability range. 
0704.01932	A discriminating probe of gravity at cosmological scales	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Pengjie Zhang (SHAO), Michele Liguori (Cambridge), Rachel Bean (Cornell), Scott Dodelson (Fermilab/Chicago)	 Abstract: The standard cosmological model is based on general relativity and includes dark matter and dark energy. An important prediction of this model is a fixed relationship between the gravitational potentials responsible for gravitational lensing and the matter overdensity. Alternative theories of gravity often make different predictions for this relationship. We propose a set of measurements which can test the lensing/matter relationship, thereby distinguishing between dark energy/matter models and models in which gravity differs from general relativity. Planned optical, infrared and radio galaxy and lensing surveys will be able to measure $E_G$, an observational quantity whose expectation value is equal to the ratio of the Laplacian of the Newtonian potentials to the peculiar velocity divergence, to percent accuracy. We show that this will easily separate alternatives such as $\Lambda$CDM, DGP, TeVeS and $f(R)$ gravity. 
0704.01933	The Loewner driving function of trajectory arcs of quadratic  differentials	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Jonathan Tsai	 Abstract: We obtain a first order differential equation for the driving function of the chordal Loewner differential equation in the case where the domain is slit by a curve which is a trajectory arc of certain quadratic differentials. In particular this includes the case when the curve is a path on the square, triangle or hexagonal lattice in the upper halfplane or, indeed, in any domain with boundary on the lattice. We also demonstrate how we use this to calculate the driving function numerically. Equivalent results for other variants of the Loewner differential equation are also obtained: Multiple slits in the chordal Loewner differential equation and the radial Loewner differential equation. The method also works for other versions of the Loewner differential equation. The proof of our formula uses a generalization of Schwarz-Christoffel mapping to domains bounded by trajectory arcs of rotations of a given quadratic differential that is of interest in its own right. 
0704.01934	On the measurement problem for a two-level quantum system	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Alexey A. Kryukov	 Abstract: A geometric approach to quantum mechanics with unitary evolution and non-unitary collapse processes is developed. In this approach the Schrodinger evolution of a quantum system is a geodesic motion on the space of states of the system furnished with an appropriate Riemannian metric. The measuring device is modeled by a perturbation of the metric. The process of measurement is identified with a geodesic motion of state of the system in the perturbed metric. Under the assumption of random fluctuations of the perturbed metric, the Born rule for probabilities of collapse is derived. The approach is applied to a two-level quantum system to obtain a simple geometric interpretation of quantum commutators, the uncertainty principle and Planck's constant. In light of this, a lucid analysis of the double-slit experiment with collapse and an experiment on a pair of entangled particles is presented. 
0704.01935	Global-String and Vortex Superfluids in a Supersymmetric Scenario	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:C. N. Ferreira, J. A. Helayel-Neto, W. G. Ney	 Abstract: The main goal of this work is to investigate the possibility of finding the supersymmetric version of the U(1)-global string model which behaves as a vortex-superfluid. To describe the superfluid phase, we introduce a Lorentz-symmetry breaking background that, in an approach based on supersymmetry, leads to a discussion on the relation between the violation of Lorentz symmetry and explicit soft supersymmetry breakings. We also study the relation between the string configuration and the vortex-superfluid phase. In the framework we settle down in terms of superspace and superfields, we actually establish a duality between the vortex degrees of freedom and the component fields of the Kalb-Ramond superfield. We make also considerations about the fermionic excitations that may appear in connection with the vortex formation. 
0704.01936	Identities for number series and their reciprocals: Dirac delta function  approach	General Mathematics (math.GM)	Authors:S. M. Abrarov, R. M. Abrarov	 Abstract: Dirac delta function (delta-distribution) approach can be used as efficient method to derive identities for number series and their reciprocals. Applying this method, a simple proof for identity relating prime counting function (pi-function) and logarithmic integral (Li-function) can be obtained. 
0704.01937	Light quark masses from unquenched lattice QCD	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:CP-PACS/JLQCD Collaborations: T. Ishikawa, S. Aoki, M. Fukugita, S. Hashimoto, K-I. Ishikawa, N. Ishizuka, Y. Iwasaki, K. Kanaya, T. Kaneko, Y. Kuramashi, M. Okawa, Y. Taniguchi, N. Tsutsui, A. Ukawa, N. Yamada, T. Yoshié	 Abstract: We calculate the light meson spectrum and the light quark masses by lattice QCD simulation, treating all light quarks dynamically and employing the Iwasaki gluon action and the nonperturbatively O(a)-improved Wilson quark action. The calculations are made at the squared lattice spacings at an equal distance a^2~0.005, 0.01 and 0.015 fm^2, and the continuum limit is taken assuming an O(a^2) discretization error. The light meson spectrum is consistent with experiment. The up, down and strange quark masses in the \bar{MS} scheme at 2 GeV are \bar{m}=(m_{u}+m_{d})/2=3.55^{+0.65}_{-0.28} MeV and m_s=90.1^{+17.2}_{-6.1} MeV where the error includes statistical and all systematic errors added in quadrature. These values contain the previous estimates obtained with the dynamical u and d quarks within the error. 
0704.01938	The Chow ring of the moduli space and its related homogeneous space of  bundles on P^2 with charge 1	Algebraic Topology (math.AT)	Authors:Yasuhiko Kamiyama, Michishige Tezuka	 Abstract: For an algebraically closed field K with ch K \not = 2, we determine the Chow ring of the moduli space of holomorphic bundles on a projective plane with the structure group SO(n,K) and half the first Pontryagin index being equal to 1, each of which is trivial on a fixed line and has a fixed holomorphic trivialization there. 
0704.01939	Entanglement condition via su(2) and su(1,1) algebra using  Schr{ö}dinger-Robertson uncertainty relation	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Hyunchul Nha	 Abstract: The Schr{\"o}dinger-Robertson inequality generally provides a stronger bound on the product of uncertainties for two noncommuting observables than the Heisenberg uncertainty relation, and as such, it can yield a stricter separability condition in conjunction with partial transposition. In this paper, using the Schr{\"o}dinger-Robertson uncertainty relation, the separability condition previously derived from the su(2) and the su(1,1) algebra is made stricter and refined to a form invariant with respect to local phase shifts. Furthermore, a linear optical scheme is proposed to test this invariant separability condition. 
0704.01940	Additional Explanatory Notes on the Analytic Proof of the Finite  Generation of the Canonical Ring	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yum-Tong Siu	 Abstract: This set of notes provides some additional explanatory material on the analytic proof of the finite generation of the canonical ring for a compact complex algebraic manifold of general type. 
0704.01941	Tait's conjectures and odd crossing number amphicheiral knots	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:A. Stoimenow	 Abstract: We give a brief historical overview of the Tait conjectures, made 120 years ago in the course of his pioneering work in tabulating the simplest knots, and solved a century later using the Jones polynomial. We announce the solution, again based on a substantial study of the Jones polynomial, of one (possibly his last remaining?) problem of Tait, with the construction of amphicheiral knots of almost all odd crossing numbers. An application to the non-triviality problem for the Jones polynomial is also outlined. 
0704.01942	A revisit of the papers on the theory of relativity: Reconsideration of  the hypothesis of ether-dragging	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Masanori Sato	 Abstract: This paper revisits previous papers related to the theory of relativity. Afterwards, a reconsideration of the hypothesis of ether-dragging is discussed. The ether is compatible with the theory of relativity and historical experiments; this paper explains the Michelson-Morley experiment using the ether-dragging hypothesis without the orthodox interpretation that the speed c is a fixed constant in terms of any system of inertial coordinates. 
0704.01943	The ideal-valued index for a dihedral group action, and mass partition  by two hyperplanes	Algebraic Topology (math.AT)	Authors:Pavle V. M. Blagojević, Günter M. Ziegler	 Abstract: We compute the complete Fadell-Husseini index of the 8 element dihedral group D_8 acting on S^d \times S^d, both for F_2 and for integer coefficients. This establishes the complete goup cohomology lower bounds for the two hyperplane case of Gr"unbaum's 1960 mass partition problem: For which d and j can any j arbitrary measures be cut into four equal parts each by two suitably-chosen hyperplanes in R^d? In both cases, we find that the ideal bounds are not stronger than previously established bounds based on one of the maximal abelian subgroups of D_8. 
0704.01944	A new method of alpha ray measurement using a Quadrupole Mass  Spectrometer	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:Y. Iwata, Y. Inoue, M. Minowa	 Abstract: We propose a new method of alpha($\alpha$)-ray measurement that detects helium atoms with a Quadrupole Mass Spectrometer(QMS). A demonstration is undertaken with a plastic-covered $^{241}$Am $\alpha$-emitting source to detect $\alpha$-rays stopped in the capsule. We successfully detect helium atoms that diffuse out of the capsule by accumulating them for one to 20 hours in a closed chamber. The detected amount is found to be proportional to the accumulation time. Our method is applicable to probe $\alpha$-emitting radioactivity in bulk material. 
0704.01945	Magnetorotational Collapse of Population III Stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Yudai Suwa, Tomoya Takiwaki, Kei Kotake, Katsuhiko Sato	 Abstract: We perform a series of two-dimensional magnetorotational core-collapse simulations of Pop III stars. Changing the initial distributions of rotation and magnetic fields prior to collapse in a parametric manner, we compute 19 models. By so doing, we systematically investigate how rotation and magnetic fields affect the collapse dynamics and explore how the properties of the black-hole formations and neutrino emissions could be affected. As for the microphysics, we employ a realistic equation of state and approximate the neutrino transfer by a multiflavour leakage scheme. With these computations, we find that the jet-like explosions are obtained by the magnetodriven shock waves if the initial magnetic field is as large as $10^{12}$ G. We point out that the black-hole masses at the formation decrease with the initial field strength, on the other hand, increase with the initial rotation rates. As for the neutrino properties, we point out that the degree of the differential rotation plays an important role to determine which species of the neutrino luminosity is more dominant than the others. Furthermore, we find that the stronger magnetic fields make the peak neutrino luminosities smaller, because the magnetic pressure acts to halt the collapse in the central regions, leading to the suppression of the releasable gravitational binding energies. 
0704.01946	Hyperfine Quenching of the $4s4p ^{3}P_{0}$ Level in Zn-like Ions	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:J.P. Marques (CFA), F. Parente (CFA, DFFCT), Paul Indelicato (LKB - Jussieu)	 Abstract: In this paper, we used the multiconfiguration Dirac-Fock method to compute with high precision the influence of the hyperfine interaction on the $[Ar]3d^{10} 4s4p ^3P_0$ level lifetime in Zn-like ions for stable and some quasi-stable isotopes of nonzero nuclear spin between Z=30 and Z=92. The influence of this interaction on the $[Ar]3d^{10} 4s4p ^3P_1 - [Ar]3d^{10} 4s4p ^3P_0$ separation energy is also calculated for the same ions. 
0704.01947	R-matrices in Rime	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:O. Ogievetsky, T. Popov	 Abstract: We replace the ice Ansatz on matrix solutions of the Yang-Baxter equation by a weaker condition which we call "rime". Rime solutions include the standard Drinfeld-Jimbo R-matrix. Solutions of the Yang--Baxter equation within the rime Ansatz which are maximally different from the standard one we call "strict rime". A strict rime non-unitary solution is parameterized by a projective vector. We show that this solution transforms to the Cremmer-Gervais R-matrix by a change of basis with a matrix containing symmetric functions in the components of the parameterizing vector. A strict unitary solution (the rime Ansatz is well adapted for taking a unitary limit) is shown to be equivalent to a quantization of a classical "boundary" r-matrix of Gerstenhaber and Giaquinto. We analyze the structure of the elementary rime blocks and find, as a by-product, that all non-standard R-matrices of GL(1|1)-type can be uniformly described in a rime form. We discuss then connections of the classical rime solutions with the Bezout operators. The Bezout operators satisfy the (non-)homogeneous associative classical Yang--Baxter equation which is related to the Rota-Baxter operators. We classify the rime Poisson brackets: they form a 3-dimensional pencil. A normal form of each individual member of the pencil depends on the discriminant of a certain quadratic polynomial. We also classify orderable quadratic rime associative algebras. For the standard Drinfeld-Jimbo solution, there is a choice of the multiparameters, for which it can be non-trivially rimed. However, not every Belavin-Drinfeld triple admits a choice of the multiparameters for which it can be rimed. We give a minimal example. 
0704.01948	Quadratic centers defining elliptic surfaces	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Sebastien Gautier	 Abstract: Let $X$ be a quadratic vector field with a center whose generic orbits are algebraic curves of genus one. To each $X$ we associate an elliptic surface (a smooth complex compact surface which is a genus one fibration). We give the list of all such vector fields and determine the corresponding elliptic surfaces. 
0704.01949	Corner Transfer Matrix Renormalization Group Method Applied to the Ising  Model on the Hyperbolic Plane	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Kouji Ueda, Roman Krcmar, Andrej Gendiar, Tomotoshi Nishino	 Abstract: Critical behavior of the Ising model is investigated at the center of large scale finite size systems, where the lattice is represented as the tiling of pentagons. The system is on the hyperbolic plane, and the recursive structure of the lattice makes it possible to apply the corner transfer matrix renormalization group method. From the calculated nearest neighbor spin correlation function and the spontaneous magnetization, it is concluded that the phase transition of this model is mean-field like. One parameter deformation of the corner Hamiltonian on the hyperbolic plane is discussed. 
0704.01950	Inferring periodic orbits from spectra of simple shaped micro-lasers	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:M. Lebental, N. Djellali, C. Arnaud, J.-S. Lauret, J. Zyss, R. Dubertrand, C. Schmit, E. Bogomolny	 Abstract: Dielectric micro-cavities are widely used as laser resonators and characterizations of their spectra are of interest for various applications. We experimentally investigate micro-lasers of simple shapes (Fabry-Perot, square, pentagon, and disk). Their lasing spectra consist mainly of almost equidistant peaks and the distance between peaks reveals the length of a quantized periodic orbit. To measure this length with a good precision, it is necessary to take into account different sources of refractive index dispersion. Our experimental and numerical results agree with the superscar model describing the formation of long-lived states in polygonal cavities. The limitations of the two-dimensional approximation are briefly discussed in connection with micro-disks. 
0704.01951	Zeta function and cryptographic exponent of supersingular curves of  genus 2	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Gabriel Cardona, Enric Nart	 Abstract: We compute in a direct (not algorithmic) way the zeta function of all supersingular curves of genus 2 over a finite field k, with many geometric automorphisms. We display these computations in an appendix where we select a family of representatives of all these curves up to geometric isomorphism and we exhibit equations and the zeta function of all their twists. As an application we obtain a direct computation of the cryptographic exponent of the Jacobians of these curves. 
0704.01952	Dynamic Effects Increasing Network Vulnerability to Cascading Failures	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Ingve Simonsen, Lubos Buzna, Karsten Peters, Stefan Bornholdt, Dirk Helbing	 Abstract: We study cascading failures in networks using a dynamical flow model based on simple conservation and distribution laws to investigate the impact of transient dynamics caused by the rebalancing of loads after an initial network failure (triggering event). It is found that considering the flow dynamics may imply reduced network robustness compared to previous static overload failure models. This is due to the transient oscillations or overshooting in the loads, when the flow dynamics adjusts to the new (remaining) network structure. We obtain {\em upper} and {\em lower} limits to network robustness, and it is shown that {\it two} time scales $\tau$ and $\tau_0$, defined by the network dynamics, are important to consider prior to accurately addressing network robustness or vulnerability. The robustness of networks showing cascading failures is generally determined by a complex interplay between the network topology and flow dynamics, where the ratio $\chi=\tau/\tau_0$ determines the relative role of the two of them. 
0704.01953	Ramsey fringes formation during excitation of topological modes in a  Bose-Einstein condensate	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:E.R.F. Ramos, L. Sanz, V.I. Yukalov, V.S. Bagnato	 Abstract: The Ramsey fringes formation during the excitation of topological coherent modes of a Bose-Einstein condensate by an external modulating field is considered. The Ramsey fringes appear when a series of pulses of the excitation field is applied. In both Rabi and Ramsey interrogations, there is a shift of the population maximum transfer due to the strong non-linearity present in the system. It is found that the Ramsey pattern itself retains information about the accumulated relative phase between both ground and excited coherent modes. 
0704.01954	The Allen-Cahn Action functional in higher dimensions	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Luca Mugnai, Matthias Röger	 Abstract: The Allen-Cahn action functional is related to the probability of rare events in the stochastically perturbed Allen-Cahn equation. Formal calculations suggest a reduced action functional in the sharp interface limit. We prove in two and three space dimensions the corresponding lower bound. One difficulty is that diffuse interfaces may collapse in the limit. We therefore consider the limit of diffuse surface area measures and introduce a generalized velocity and generalized reduced action functional in a class of evolving measures. As a corollary we obtain the Gamma convergence of the action functional in a class of regularly evolving hypersurfaces. 
0704.01955	Metrical characterization of super-reflexivity and linear type of Banach  spaces	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Florent Baudier	 Abstract: We prove that a Banach space X is not super-reflexive if and only if the hyperbolic infinite tree embeds metrically into X. We improve one implication of J.Bourgain's result who gave a metrical characterization of super-reflexivity in Banach spaces in terms of uniforms embeddings of the finite trees. A characterization of the linear type for Banach spaces is given using the embedding of the infinite tree equipped with a suitable metric. 
0704.01956	Search for exclusive events using the dijet mass fraction at the  Tevatron	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:O. Kepka, C. Royon ((1) DAPNIA/Service de physique des particules, CEA/Saclay, Gif-sur-Yvette cedex, France, (2) IPNP, Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, Charles University, Prague, (3) Center for Particle Physics, Institute of Physics, Academy of Science, Prague)	 Abstract: In this paper, we discuss the observation of exclusive events using the dijet mass fraction as measured by the CDF collaboration at the Tevatron. We compare the data to pomeron exchange inspired models as well as Soft color interaction ones. We also provide the prediction on dijet mass fraction at the LHC using both exclusive and inclusive diffractive events. 
0704.01957	Entanglement Cost for Sequences of Arbitrary Quantum States	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Garry Bowen, Nilanjana Datta	 Abstract: The entanglement cost of arbitrary sequences of bipartite states is shown to be expressible as the minimization of a conditional spectral entropy rate over sequences of separable extensions of the states in the sequence. The expression is shown to reduce to the regularized entanglement of formation when the n-th state in the sequence consists of n copies of a single bipartite state. 
0704.01958	Line and continuum variability of two intermediate-redshift,  high-luminosity quasars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D.Trevese, D.Paris, G. M. Stirpe, F.Vagnetti, V. Zitelli	 Abstract: It has been shown that the luminosity of AGNs and the size of their broad line region obey a simple relation of the type R=a L^g, from faint Seyfert nuclei to bright quasars, allowing single-epoch determination of the central black hole mass M=b L^g D^2 from their luminosity L and width of H_beta emission line. Adopting this mass determination for cosmological studies requires the extrapolation to high z and L of a relation whose calibration relies so far on reverberation mapping measurements performed for L<10^46 erg/s and z<0.4. We initiated a campaign for the monitoring of a few luminous, intermediate z quasars whose apparent magnitude V<15.7 allows observations with a 1.8m telescope, aimed at proving that emission lines vary and respond to continuum variations even for luminosities >10^47 erg/s, and determining eventually their M_BH from reverberation mapping. We have repeatedly performed simultaneous observations of quasars and reference stars to determine relative variability of continuum and emission lines. We describe the observations and methods of analysis. For the quasars PG1634+706 and PG1247+268 we obtain light-curves respectively for CIII], MgII and for CIV, CIII] emission lines with the relevant continua. During 3.2 years of observation, in the former case no continuum variability has been detected and the evidence for line variability is marginal, while in the latter case both continuum and line variability are detected with high significance and the line variations appear correlated with continuum variations. The detection of the emission line variability in a quasar with L~10^47 erg/s encourages the prosecution of the campaign which should provide a black hole mass estimate in other 5-6 years, constraining the M_BH-L relation in a poorly explored range of luminosity. 
0704.01959	Adiabatic passage in a three-state system with non-Markovian relaxation:  The role of excited-state absorption and two-exciton processes	Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)	Authors:B.D. Fainberg, V.A. Gorbunov	 Abstract: The influence of excited-state absorption (ESA) and two-exciton processes on a coherent population transfer with intense ultrashort chirped pulses in molecular systems in solution has been studied. An unified treatment of adiabatic rapid passage (ARP) in such systems has been developed using a three-state electronic system with relaxation treated as a diffusion on electronic potential energy surfaces. We have shown that ESA has a profound effect on coherent population transfer in large molecules that necessitates a more accurate interpretation of experimental data. A simple and physically clear model for ARP in molecules with three electronic states in solution has been developed by extending the Landau-Zener calculations putting in a third level to random crossing of levels. A method for quantum control of two-exciton states in molecular complexes has been proposed. 
0704.01960	Harmonic bilocal fields generated by globally conformal invariant scalar  fields	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Nikolay M. Nikolov, Karl-Henning Rehren, Ivan Todorov	 Abstract: The twist two contribution in the operator product expansion of phi_1(x_1) phi_2(x_2) for a pair of globally conformal invariant, scalar fields of equal scaling dimension d in four space-time dimensions is a field V_1(x_1,x_2) which is harmonic in both variables. It is demonstrated that the Huygens bilocality of V_1 can be equivalently characterized by a "single-pole property" concerning the pole structure of the (rational) correlation functions involving the product phi_1(x_1) phi_2(x_2). This property is established for the dimension d=2 of phi_1, phi_2. As an application we prove that any system of GCI scalar fields of conformal dimension 2 (in four space-time dimensions) can be presented as a (possibly infinite) superposition of products of free massless fields. 
0704.01961	Impact of spin-zero particle-photon interactions on light polarization  in external magnetic fields	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Yi Liao (Nankai U.)	 Abstract: If the recent PVLAS results on polarization changes of a linearly polarized laser beam passing through a magnetic field are interpreted by an axion-like particle, it is almost certain that it is not a standard QCD axion. Considering this, we study the general effective interactions of photons with spin-zero particles without restricting the latter to be a pseudo-scalar or a scalar, i.e., a parity eigenstate. At the lowest order in effective field theory, there are two dimension-5 interactions, each of which has previously been treated separately for a pseudo-scalar or a scalar particle. By following the evolution in an external magnetic field of the system of spin-zero particles and photons, we compute the changes in light polarization and the transition probability for two experimental set-ups: one-way propagation and round-trip propagation. While the first may be relevant for astrophysical sources of spin-zero particles, the second applies to laboratory optical experiments like PVLAS. In the one-way propagation, interesting phenomena can occur for special configurations of polarization where, for instance, transition occurs but light polarization does not change. For the round-trip propagation, however, the standard results of polarization changes for a pseudoscalar or a scalar are only modified by a factor that depends on the relative strength of the two interactions. 
0704.01962	A simple test of quantumness for a single system	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Robert Alicki, Nicholas Van Ryn	 Abstract: We propose a simple test of quantumness which can decide whether for the given set of accessible experimental data the classical model is insufficient. Take two observables $ A,B$ such that for any state $\psi$ their mean values satisfy $0\leq <\psi|A|\psi>\leq <\psi|B|\psi>\leq 1$. If there exists a state $\phi$ such that the second moments fulfill the inequality $<\phi|A^2|\phi> ><\phi|B^2|\phi>$ then the system cannot be described by the classical probabilistic scheme. An example of an optimal triple $(A,B,\phi)$ in the case of a qubit is given. 
0704.01963	SPITZER: Accretion in Low Mass Stars and Brown Dwarfs in the Lambda  Orionis Cluster	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D. Barrado y Navascues, J. R. Stauffer, M. Morales-Calderon, A. Bayo, G. Fazzio, T. Megeath, L. Allen, L. W. Hartmann, N. Calvet	 Abstract: We present multi-wavelength optical and infrared photometry of 170 previously known low mass stars and brown dwarfs of the 5 Myr Collinder 69 cluster (Lambda Orionis). The new photometry supports cluster membership for most of them, with less than 15% of the previous candidates identified as probable non-members. The near infrared photometry allows us to identify stars with IR excesses, and we find that the Class II population is very large, around 25% for stars (in the spectral range M0 - M6.5) and 40% for brown dwarfs, down to 0.04 Msun, despite the fact that the H(alpha) equivalent width is low for a significant fraction of them. In addition, there are a number of substellar objects, classified as Class III, that have optically thin disks. The Class II members are distributed in an inhomogeneous way, lying preferentially in a filament running toward the south-east. The IR excesses for the Collinder 69 members range from pure Class II (flat or nearly flat spectra longward of 1 micron), to transition disks with no near-IR excess but excesses beginning within the IRAC wavelength range, to two stars with excess only detected at 24 micron. Collinder 69 thus appears to be at an age where it provides a natural laboratory for the study of primordial disks and their dissipation. 
0704.01964	A data-analysis driven comparison of analytic and numerical coalescing  binary waveforms: nonspinning case	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Yi Pan, Alessandra Buonanno, John G. Baker, Joan Centrella, Bernard J. Kelly, Sean T. McWilliams, Frans Pretorius, James R. van Meter	 Abstract: We compare waveforms obtained by numerically evolving nonspinning binary black holes to post-Newtonian (PN) template families currently used in the search for gravitational waves by ground-based detectors. We find that the time-domain 3.5PN template family, which includes the inspiral phase, has fitting factors (FFs) >= 0.96 for binary systems with total mass M = 10 ~ 20 Msun. The time-domain 3.5PN effective-one-body template family, which includes the inspiral, merger and ring-down phases, gives satisfactory signal-matching performance with FFs >= 0.96 for binary systems with total mass M = 10 ~ 120 Msun. If we introduce a cutoff frequency properly adjusted to the final black-hole ring-down frequency, we find that the frequency-domain stationary-phase-approximated template family at 3.5PN order has FFs >= 0.96 for binary systems with total mass M = 10 ~ 20 Msun. However, to obtain high matching performances for larger binary masses, we need to either extend this family to unphysical regions of the parameter space or introduce a 4PN order coefficient in the frequency-domain GW phase. Finally, we find that the phenomenological Buonanno-Chen-Vallisneri family has FFs >= 0.97 with total mass M=10 ~ 120Msun. The main analyses use the noise spectral-density of LIGO, but several tests are extended to VIRGO and advanced LIGO noise-spectral densities. 
0704.01965	Quantum entanglement of decohered two-mode squeezed states in absorbing  and amplifying environment	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Phoenix S. Y. Poon, C. K. Law	 Abstract: We investigate the properties of quantum entanglement of two-mode squeezed states interacting with linear baths with general gain and loss parameters. By explicitly solving for \rho from the master equation, we determine analytical expressions of eigenvalues and eigenvectors of \rho^{T_A} (the partial transposition of density matrix \rho). In Fock space, \rho^{T_A} is shown to maintain a block diagonal structure as the system evolves. In addition, we discover that the decoherence induced by the baths would break the degeneracy of \rho^{T_A}, and leads to a novel set of eigenvectors for the construction of entanglement witness operators. Such eigenvectors are shown to be time-independent, which is a signature of robust entanglement of two-mode squeezed states in the presence of noise. 
0704.01966	Some new observations on interpolation in the spectral unit ball	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Gautam Bharali	 Abstract: We present several results associated to a holomorphic-interpolation problem for the spectral unit ball \Omega_n, n\geq 2. We begin by showing that a known necessary condition for the existence of a $\mathcal{O}(D;\Omega_n)$-interpolant (D here being the unit disc in the complex plane), given that the matricial data are non-derogatory, is not sufficient. We provide next a new necessary condition for the solvability of the two-point interpolation problem -- one which is not restricted only to non-derogatory data, and which incorporates the Jordan structure of the prescribed data. We then use some of the ideas used in deducing the latter result to prove a Schwarz-type lemma for holomorphic self-maps of \Omega_n, n\geq 2. 
0704.01967	The microcanonical ensemble of the ideal relativistic quantum gas	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:F. Becattini, L. Ferroni (University of Florence and INFN Florence)	 Abstract: We derive the microcanonical partition function of the ideal relativistic quantum gas of spinless bosons in a quantum field framework as an expansion over fixed multiplicities. Our calculation generalizes well known expressions in literature in that it does not introduce any large volume approximation and it is valid at any volume. We discuss the issues concerned with the definition of the microcanonical ensemble for a free quantum field at volumes comparable with the Compton wavelength and provide a consistent prescription of calculating the microcanonical partition function, which is finite at finite volume and yielding the correct thermodynamic limit. Besides an immaterial overall factor, the obtained expression turns out to be the same as in the non-relativistic multi-particle approach. This work is introductory to derive the most general expression of the microcanonical partition function fixing the maximal set of observables of the Poincare' group. 
0704.01968	The spin-flip phenomenon in supermassive black hole binary mergers	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:László Á. Gergely, Peter L. Biermann	 Abstract: Massive merging black holes will be the primary sources of powerful gravitational waves at low frequency, and will permit to test general relativity with candidate galaxies close to a binary black hole merger. In this paper we identify the typical mass ratio of the two black holes but then show that the distance when gravitational radiation becomes the dominant dissipative effect (over dynamical friction) does not depend on the mass ratio. However the dynamical evolution in the gravitational wave emission regime does. For the typical range of mass ratios the final stage of the merger is preceded by a rapid precession and a subsequent spin-flip of the main black hole. This already occurs in the inspiral phase, therefore can be described analytically by post-Newtonian techniques. We then identify the radio galaxies with a super-disk as those in which the rapidly precessing jet produces effectively a powerful wind, entraining the environmental gas to produce the appearance of a thick disk. These specific galaxies are thus candidates for a merger of two black holes to happen in the astronomically near future. 
0704.01969	On the Young-Fibonacci insertion algorithm	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Janvier Nzeutchap	 Abstract: This work is concerned with some properties of the Young-Fibonacci insertion algorithm and its relation with Fomin's growth diagrams. It also investigates a relation between the combinatorics of Young-Fibonacci tableaux and the study of Okada's algebra associated to the Young-Fibonacci lattice. The original algorithm was introduced by Roby and we redefine it in such a way that both the insertion and recording tableaux of any permutation are \emph{conveniently} interpreted as chains in the Young-Fibonacci lattice. A property of Killpatrick's evacuation is given a simpler proof, but this evacuation is no longer needed in making Roby's and Fomin's constructions coincide. We provide the set of Young-Fibonacci tableaux of size $n$ with a structure of graded poset, induced by the weak order on permutations of the symmetric group, and realized by transitive closure of elementary transformations on tableaux. We show that this poset gives a combinatorial interpretation of the coefficients in the transition matrix from the analogue of complete symmetric functions to analogue of the Schur functions in Okada's algebra. We end with a quite similar observation for four posets on Young-tableaux studied by Taskin. 
0704.01970	Thermoelectric response near a quantum critical point: the case of  CeCoIn5	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:K. Izawa, K. Behnia, Y. Matsuda, H. Shishido, R.Settai, Y. Onuki, J. Flouquet	 Abstract: We present a study of thermoelectric coefficients in CeCoIn_5 down to 0.1 K and up to 16 T in order to probe the thermoelectric signatures of quantum criticality. In the vicinity of the field-induced quantum critical point, the Nernst coefficient nu exhibits a dramatic enhancement without saturation down to lowest measured temperature. The dimensionless ratio of Seebeck coefficient to electronic specific heat shows a minimum at a temperature close to threshold of the quasiparticle formation. Close to T_c(H), in the vortex-liquid state, the Nernst coefficient behaves anomalously in puzzling contrast with other superconductors and standard vortex dynamics. 
0704.01971	Dissipative dynamics of superfluid vortices at non-zero temperatures	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Natalia G. Berloff, Anthony J. Youd	 Abstract: We consider the evolution and dissipation of vortex rings in a condensate at non-zero temperature, in the context of the classical field approximation, based on the defocusing nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation. The temperature in such a system is fully determined by the total number density and the number density of the condensate. A vortex ring is introduced into a condensate in a state of thermal equilibrium, and interacts with non-condensed particles. These interactions lead to a gradual decrease in the vortex line density, until the vortex ring completely disappears. We show that the square of the vortex line length changes linearly with time, and obtain the corresponding universal decay law. We relate this to mutual friction coefficients in the fundamental equation of vortex motion in superfluids. 
0704.01972	Critical edge behavior in unitary random matrix ensembles and the thirty  fourth Painleve transcendent	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:A.R. Its, A.B.J. Kuijlaars, J. Ostensson	 Abstract: We describe a new universality class for unitary invariant random matrix ensembles. It arises in the double scaling limit of ensembles of random $n \times n$ Hermitian matrices $Z_{n,N}^{-1} |\det M|^{2\alpha} e^{-N \Tr V(M)} dM$ with $\alpha > -1/2$, where the factor $|\det M|^{2\alpha}$ induces critical eigenvalue behavior near the origin. Under the assumption that the limiting mean eigenvalue density associated with $V$ is regular, and that the origin is a right endpoint of its support, we compute the limiting eigenvalue correlation kernel in the double scaling limit as $n, N \to \infty$ such that $n^{2/3}(n/N-1) = O(1)$. We use the Deift-Zhou steepest descent method for the Riemann-Hilbert problem for polynomials on the line orthogonal with respect to the weight $|x|^{2\alpha} e^{-NV(x)}$. Our main attention is on the construction of a local parametrix near the origin by means of the $\psi$-functions associated with a distinguished solution of the Painleve XXXIV equation. This solution is related to a particular solution of the Painleve II equation, which however is different from the usual Hastings-McLeod solution. 
0704.01973	Vibrational effects on low-temperature properties of molecular  conductors	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Jernej Mravlje, Anton Ramsak, Rok Zitko	 Abstract: We calculate characteristic correlation functions for the Anderson model with additional phonon-assisted coupling to the odd conduction channel. This model describes, for example, the behavior of a molecule embedded between two electrodes in linear transport experiments where the position of the molecule with respect to the leads affects the tunneling amplitudes. We use variational projection-operator method and numerical renormalization group (NRG) method. The spin is Kondo screened either by even or odd conduction channel depending on the gate voltage and electron-phonon coupling. However, in all regimes the gate-voltage dependence of the zero temperature conductance is found to be qualitatively the same as in the model with no coupling to the vibrational mode. 
0704.01974	Agile low phase noise radio-frequency sine wave generator applied to  experiments on ultracold atoms	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:Olivier Morizot (LPL), Julien De Lapeyre De Bellair (LPL), Fabrice Wiotte (LPL), Olivier Lopez (LPL), Paul-Eric Pottie (LPL), Hélène Perrin (LPL)	 Abstract: We report on the frequency performance of a low cost (~500$) radio-frequency sine wave generator, using direct digital synthesis (DDS) and a field-programmable gate array (FPGA). The output frequency of the device may be changed dynamically to any arbitrary value ranging from DC to 10 MHz without any phase slip. Sampling effects are substantially reduced by a high sample rate, up to 1 MHz, and by a large memory length, more than 2.10^5 samples. By using a low noise external oscillator to clock the DDS, we demonstrate a phase noise as low as that of the master clock, that is at the level of -113 dB.rad^2/Hz at 1 Hz from the carrier for an output frequency of 3.75 MHz. The device is successfully used to confine an ultracold atomic cloud of rubidium 87 in a RF-based trap, and there is no extra heating from the RF source. 
0704.01975	Growth rates for geometric complexities and counting functions in  polygonal billiards	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Eugene Gutkin, Michal Rams	 Abstract: We introduce a new method for estimating the growth of various quantities arising in dynamical systems. We apply our method to polygonal billiards on surfaces of constant curvature. For instance, we obtain power bounds of degree two plus epsilon in length for the number of billiard orbits between almost all pairs of points in a planar polygon. 
0704.01976	Information-Based Asset Pricing	Pricing of Securities (q-fin.PR)	Authors:Dorje C. Brody, Lane P. Hughston, Andrea Macrina	 Abstract: A new framework for asset price dynamics is introduced in which the concept of noisy information about future cash flows is used to derive the price processes. In this framework an asset is defined by its cash-flow structure. Each cash flow is modelled by a random variable that can be expressed as a function of a collection of independent random variables called market factors. With each such "X-factor" we associate a market information process, the values of which are accessible to market agents. Each information process is a sum of two terms; one contains true information about the value of the market factor; the other represents "noise". The noise term is modelled by an independent Brownian bridge. The market filtration is assumed to be that generated by the aggregate of the independent information processes. The price of an asset is given by the expectation of the discounted cash flows in the risk-neutral measure, conditional on the information provided by the market filtration. When the cash flows are the dividend payments associated with equities, an explicit model is obtained for the share-price, and the prices of options on dividend-paying assets are derived. Remarkably, the resulting formula for the price of a European call option is of the Black-Scholes-Merton type. The information-based framework also generates a natural explanation for the origin of stochastic volatility. 
0704.01977	The Jumping Phenomenon of Hodge Numbers	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Xuanming Ye	 Abstract: Let $X$ be a compact complex manifold, consider a small deformation $\phi: \mathcal{X} \to B$ of $X$, the dimension of the Dolbeault cohomology groups $H^q(X_t,\Omega_{X_t}^p)$ may vary under this defromation. This paper will study such phenomenons by studying the obstructions to deform a class in $H^q(X,\Omega_X^p)$ with the parameter $t$ and get the formula for the obstructions. 
0704.01978	Strange dibaryon resonance in the anti-KNN--piYN system	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Y. Ikeda, T. Sato	 Abstract: Three-body resonances in the \bar{K}NN system have been studied within a framework of the \bar{K}NN-\pi YN coupled hannel Faddeev equation. By solving the three-body equation the energy dependence of the resonant \bar{K}N amplitude is fully taken into account. The S-matrix pole has been investigated from the eigenvalue of the kernel with the analytic continuation of the scattering amplitude on the unphysical Riemann sheet. The \barKN interaction is constructed from the leading order term of the chiral Lagrangian using relativistic kinematics. The \Lambda(1405) resonance is dynamically generated in this model, where the \bar{K}N interaction parameters are fitted to the data of scattering length. As a result we find a three-body resonance of the strange dibaryon system with binding energy, B~79 MeV, and width, \Gamma~74 MeV. The energy of the three-body resonance is found to be sensitive to the model of the I=0 \barKN interaction. 
0704.01979	SU(2) and SU(4) Kondo effect in double quantum dots	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Jernej Mravlje, Anton Ramsak, Tomaz Rejec	 Abstract: We investigate serial double quantum dot systems with on-site and inter-site interaction by means of Sch\"onhammer-Gunnarsson projection-operator method. The ground state is established by the competition between extended Kondo phases and localized singlet phases in spi$ degrees of freedom. We present and discuss different phases, as discerned by characteristic correlation functions. We discuss also how different phases would be seen in linear transport measurements. 
0704.01980	V-cycle optimal convergence for DCT-III matrices	Numerical Analysis (math.NA)	Authors:C. Tablino Possio	 Abstract: The paper analyzes a two-grid and a multigrid method for matrices belonging to the DCT-III algebra and generated by a polynomial symbol. The aim is to prove that the convergence rate of the considered multigrid method (V-cycle) is constant independent of the size of the given matrix. Numerical examples from differential and integral equations are considered to illustrate the claimed convergence properties. 
0704.01981	Improved Measurement of the Positive Muon Lifetime and Determination of  the Fermi Constant	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:MuLan Collaboration: D.B. Chitwood, T.I. Banks, M.J. Barnes, S. Battu, R.M. Carey, S. Cheekatmalla, S.M. Clayton, J. Crnkovic, K.M. Crowe, P.T. Debevec, S. Dhamija, W. Earle, A. Gafarov, K. Giovanetti, T.P. Gorringe, F.E. Gray, M. Hance, D.W. Hertzog, M.F. Hare, P. Kammel, B. Kiburg, J. Kunkle, B. Lauss, I. Logashenko, K.R. Lynch, R. McNabb, J.P. Miller, F. Mulhauser, C.J.G. Onderwater, C.S. Ozben, Q. Peng, C.C. Polly, S. Rath, B.L. Roberts, V. Tishchenko, G.D. Wait, J. Wasserman, D.M. Webber, P. Winter, P.A. Zolnierczuk	 Abstract: The mean life of the positive muon has been measured to a precision of 11 ppm using a low-energy, pulsed muon beam stopped in a ferromagnetic target, which was surrounded by a scintillator detector array. The result, tau_mu = 2.197013(24) us, is in excellent agreement with the previous world average. The new world average tau_mu = 2.197019(21) us determines the Fermi constant G_F = 1.166371(6) x 10^-5 GeV^-2 (5 ppm). Additionally, the precision measurement of the positive muon lifetime is needed to determine the nucleon pseudoscalar coupling g_P. 
0704.01982	Some notes on analytic torsion of the Rumin complex on contact manifolds	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Neil Seshadri	 Abstract: We propose a definition for analytic torsion of the Rumin complex on contact manifolds. This is given by the derivative at zero of a well-chosen combination of zeta functions of a fourth-order modified Rumin Laplacian. The regular value at zero (before differentiation) of this well-chosen combination of zeta functions is shown to be a contact invariant. The variation of our analytic torsion is given as the integral of local terms, together with a global term coming from the null-space of the Laplacian. 
0704.01983	Universal 2+1-Dimensional Plane Equations in General Relativity and  Evolutions of Disk Nebula	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Yi-Fang Chang	 Abstract: The general relativity is the base for any exact evolutionary theory of large scale structures. We calculate the universal 2+1-dimensional plane equations of gravitational field in general relativity. Based on the equations, the evolutions of disk nebula are discussed. A system of nebula can form binary stars or single star for different conditions. While any simplified linear theory forms only a single star system. It is proved that the nonlinear interactions are very general, so the binary stars are also common. 
0704.01984	Nuclear matter in the crust of neutron stars	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:P. Gögelein, H. Müther,  (Universität Tübingen, Germany)	 Abstract: The properties of inhomogeneous nuclear matter are investigated considering the self-consistent Skyrme Hartree-Fock approach with inclusion of pairing correlations. For a comparison we also consider a relativistic mean field approach. The inhomogeneous infinite matter is described in terms of cubic Wigner-Seitz cells, which leads to a smooth transition to the limit of homogeneous nuclear matter. The possible existence of various structures in the so-called pasta phase is investigated within this self-consistent approach and a comparison is made to results obtained within the Thomas-Fermi approximation. Results for the proton abundances and the pairing properties are discussed for densities for which clustering phenomena are obtained. 
0704.01985	Electromagnetic Higgs production	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:J. S. Miller	 Abstract: The cross section for central diffractive Higgs production is calculated, for the LHC range of energies. The graphs for the possible mechanisms for Higgs production, through pomeron fusion and photon fusions are calculated for all possibilities allowed by the standard model. The cross section for central diffractive Higgs production through pomeron fusion, must be multiplied by a factor for the survival probability, to isolate the Higgs signal and reduce the background. Due to the small value of the survival probability $\Lb 4 \times 10^{-3}\Rb $, the cross sections for central diffractive Higgs production, in the two cases for pomeron fusion and photon fusion, are competitive. 
0704.01986	Characterization of Closed Vector Fields in Finsler Geometry	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Nabil L. Youssef	 Abstract: The $\pi$-exterior derivative ${\o}d$, which is the Finslerian generalization of the (usual) exterior derivative $d$ of Riemannian geometry, is defined. The notion of a ${\o}d$-closed vector field is introduced and investigated. Various characterizations of ${\o}d$-closed vector fields are established. Some results concerning ${\o}d$-closed vector fields in relation to certain special Finsler spaces are obtained. 
0704.01987	Pure inductive limit state and Kolmogorov's property	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Anilesh Mohari	 Abstract: Let $(\clb,\lambda_t,\psi)$ be a $C^*$-dynamical system where $(\lambda_t: t \in \IT_+)$ be a semigroup of injective endomorphism and $\psi$ be an $(\lambda_t)$ invariant state on the $C^*$ subalgebra $\clb$ and $\IT_+$ is either non-negative integers or real numbers. The central aim of this exposition is to find a useful criteria for the inductive limit state $\clb \raro^{\lambda_t} \clb$ canonically associated with $\psi$ to be pure. We achieve this by exploring the minimal weak forward and backward Markov processes associated with the Markov semigroup on the corner von-Neumann algebra of the support projection of the state $\psi$ to prove that Kolmogorov's property [Mo2] of the Markov semigroup is a sufficient condition for the inductive state to be pure. As an application of this criteria we find a sufficient condition for a translation invariant factor state on a one dimensional quantum spin chain to be pure. This criteria in a sense complements criteria obtained in [BJKW,Mo2] as we could go beyond lattice symmetric states. 
0704.01988	Classical nucleation theory in ordering alloys precipitating with L12  structure	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Emmanuel Clouet (SRMP), Maylise Nastar (SRMP)	 Abstract: By means of low-temperature expansions (LTEs), the nucleation free energy and the precipitate interface free energy are expressed as functions of the solubility limit for alloys which lead to the precipitation of a stoichiometric L12 compound such as Al-Sc or Al-Zr alloys. Classical nucleation theory is then used to obtain a simple expression of the nucleation rate whose validity is demonstrated by a comparison with atomic simulations. LTEs also explain why simple mean-field approximation like the Bragg-Williams approximation fails to predict correct nucleation rates in such an ordering alloy. 
0704.01989	Jones index of a quantum dynamical semigroup	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Anilesh Mohari	 Abstract: In this paper we consider a semigroup of completely positive maps $\tau=(\tau_t,t \ge 0)$ with a faithful normal invariant state $\phi$ on a type-$II_1$ factor $\cla_0$ and propose an index theory. We :achieve this via a more general Kolmogorov's type of construction for stationary Markov processes which naturally associate a nested isomorphic von-Neumann algebras. In particular this construction generalizes well known Jones construction associated with a sub-factor of type-II$_1$ factor. 
0704.01990	Vacuum Polarization by a Magnetic Flux Tube at Finite Temperature in the  Cosmic String Spacetime	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:J. Spinelly, E. R. Bezerra de Mello	 Abstract: In this paper we analyse the effect produced by the temperature in the vacuum polarization associated with charged massless scalar field in the presence of magnetic flux tube in the cosmic string spacetime. Three different configurations of magnetic fields are taken into account: $(i)$ a homogeneous field inside the tube, $(ii)$ a field proportional to $1/r$ and $(iii)$ a cylindrical shell with $\delta$-function. In these three cases, the axis of the infinitely long tube of radius $R$ coincides with the cosmic string. Because the complexity of this analysis in the region inside the tube, we consider the thermal effect in the region outside. In order to develop this analysis, we construct the thermal Green function associated with this system for the three above mentioned situations considering points in the region outside the tube. We explicitly calculate in the high-temperature limit, the thermal average of the field square and the energy-momentum tensor. 
0704.01991	Single pion electro-- and neutrinoproduction on heavy targets	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:E. A. Paschos, I. Schienbein, J.-Y. Yu	 Abstract: We present a calculation of single pion electroproduction cross sections on heavy targets in the kinematic region of the Delta(1232) resonance. Final state interactions of the pions are taken into account using the pion multiple scattering model of Adler, Nussinov and Paschos (ANP model). For electroproduction and neutral current reactions we obtain results for carbon, oxygen, argon and iron targets and find a significant reduction of the W-spectra for pi^0 as compared to the free nucleon case. On the other hand, the charged pion spectra are only little affected by final state interactions. Measurements of such cross sections with the CLAS detector at JLAB could help to improve our understanding of pion rescattering effects and serve as important/valuable input for calculations of single pion neutrinoproduction on heavy targets relevant for current and future long baseline neutrino experiments. Two ratios, in Eq. (3.8) and (3.10), will test important properties of the model. 
0704.01992	Yukawa's Pion, Low-Energy QCD and Nuclear Chiral Dynamics	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Wolfram Weise	 Abstract: A survey is given of the evolution from Yukawa's early work, via the understanding of the pion as a Nambu-Goldstone boson of spontaneously broken chiral symmetry in QCD, to modern developments in the theory of the nucleus based on the chiral effective field theory representing QCD in its low-energy limit. 
0704.01993	Competition between local and nonlocal dissipation effects in  two-dimensional quantum Josephson junction arrays	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:T. P. Polak, T. K. Kopec	 Abstract: We discuss the local and nonlocal dissipation effects on the existence of the global phase coherence transitions in two dimensional Josephson-coupled junctions. The quantum phase transitions are also examined for various lattice geometries: square, triangular and honeycomb. The T=0 superconductor-insulator phase transition is analyzed as a function of several control parameters which include self-capacitance and junction capacitance and both local and nonlocal dissipation effects. We found the critical value of the nonlocal dissipation parameter \alpha_{1} depends on a geometry of the lattice. The critical value of the normal state conductance seems to be difficult to obtain experimentally if we take into consideration different damping mechanisms which are presented in real physical systems. 
0704.01994	Substrate-induced bandgap in graphene on hexagonal boron nitride	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Gianluca Giovannetti, Petr A. Khomyakov, Geert Brocks, Paul J. Kelly, Jeroen van den Brink	 Abstract: We determine the electronic structure of a graphene sheet on top of a lattice-matched hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) substrate using ab initio density functional calculations. The most stable configuration has one carbon atom on top of a boron atom, the other centered above a BN ring. The resulting inequivalence of the two carbon sites leads to the opening of a gap of 53 meV at the Dirac points of graphene and to finite masses for the Dirac fermions. Alternative orientations of the graphene sheet on the BN substrate generate similar band gaps and masses. The band gap induced by the BN surface can greatly improve room temperature pinch-off characteristics of graphene-based field effect transistors. 
0704.01995	Coherent dynamics of domain formation in the Bose Ferromagnet	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Qiang Gu, Haibo Qiu	 Abstract: We present a theory to describe domain formation observed very recently in a quenched Rb-87 gas, a typical ferromagnetic spinor Bose system. An overlap factor is introduced to characterize the symmetry breaking of M_F=\pm 1 components for the F=1 ferromagnetic condensate. We demonstrate that the domain formation is a co-effect of the quantum coherence and the thermal relaxation. A thermally enhanced quantum-oscillation is observed during the dynamical process of the domain formation. And the spatial separation of domains leads to significant decay of the M_F=0 component fraction in an initial M_F=0 condensate. 
0704.01996	A Wave-function for Stringy Universes	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Costas Kounnas, Nicolaos Toumbas, Jan Troost	 Abstract: We define a wave-function for string theory cosmological backgrounds. We give a prescription for computing its norm following an earlier analysis within general relativity. Under Euclidean continuation, the cosmologies we discuss in this paper are described in terms of compact parafermionic worldsheet systems. To define the wave-function we provide a T-fold description of the parafermionic conformal field theory, and of the corresponding string cosmology. In specific examples, we compute the norm of the wave-function and comment on its behavior as a function of moduli. 
0704.01997	Query on Negative Temperature, Internal Interactions and Decrease of  Entropy	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Yi-Fang Chang	 Abstract: After negative temperature is restated, we find that it will derive necessarily decrease of entropy. Negative temperature is based on the Kelvin scale and the condition dU>0 and dS<0. Conversely, there is also negative temperature for dU<0 and dS>0. But, negative temperature is contradiction with usual meaning of temperature and with some basic concepts of physics and mathematics. It is a question in nonequilibrium thermodynamics. We proposed a possibility of decrease of entropy due to fluctuation magnified and internal interactions in some isolated systems. From this we discuss some possible examples and theories. 
0704.01998	Absence of the Fifth Force Problem in a Model with Spontaneously Broken  Dilatation Symmetry	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:E. I. Guendelman, A. B. Kaganovich	 Abstract: A scale invariant model containing dilaton $\phi$ and dust (as a model of matter) is studied where the shift symmetry $\phi\to\phi +const.$ is spontaneously broken at the classical level due to intrinsic features of the model. The dilaton to matter coupling "constant" $f$ appears to be dependent of the matter density. In normal conditions, i.e. when the matter energy density is many orders of magnitude larger than the dilaton contribution to the dark energy density, $f$ becomes less than the ratio of the "mass of the vacuum" in the volume occupied by the matter to the Planck mass. The model yields this kind of "Archimedes law" without any especial (intended for this) choice of the underlying action and without fine tuning of the parameters. The model not only explains why all attempts to discover a scalar force correction to Newtonian gravity were unsuccessful so far but also predicts that in the near future there is no chance to detect such corrections in the astronomical measurements as well as in the specially designed fifth force experiments on intermediate, short (like millimeter) and even ultrashort (a few nanometer) ranges. This prediction is alternative to predictions of other known models. 
0704.01999	Dark matter caustics and the enhancement of self-annihilation flux	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Roya Mohayaee, Sergei Shandarin, Joseph Silk	 Abstract: Cold dark matter haloes are populated by caustics, which are yet to be resolved in N-body simulations or observed in the Universe. Secondary infall model provides a paradigm for the study of caustics in "typical" haloes assuming that they have had no major mergers and have grown only by smooth accretion. This is a particular characteristic of the smallest dark matter haloes of about 10^{-5} Mo, which although "atypical" contain no substructures and could have survived until now with no major mergers. Thus using this model as the first guidline, we evaluate the neutralino self-annihilation flux for these haloes. Our results show that caustics could leave a distinct sawteeth signature on the differential and cumulative fluxes coming from the outer regions of these haloes. The total annihilation signal from the regions away from the centre can be boosted by about forty percents. 
0704.02000	Search for a Higgs boson produced in association with a Z boson in ppbar  collisions	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:D0 Collaboration, V. Abazov, et al	 Abstract: We describe a search for the standard model Higgs boson with a mass of 105 GeV/c^2 to 145 GeV/c^2 in data corresponding to an integrated luminosity of approximately 450 pb^{-1} collected with the D0 detector at the Fermilab Tevatron ppbar collider at a center-of-mass energy of 1.96 TeV. The Higgs boson is required to be produced in association with a Z boson, and the Z boson is required to decay to either electrons or muons with the Higgs boson decaying to a bbbar pair. The data are well described by the expected background, leading to 95% confidence level cross section upper limits sigma(\ppbar\to ZH)x B(H\to\bbbar) in the range of 3.1 pb to 4.4 pb. 
0704.02001	Geometry of Parallelizable Manifolds in the Context of Generalized  Lagrange Spaces	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:M. I. Wanas, N. L. Youssef, A. M. Sid-Ahmed	 Abstract: In this paper, we deal with a generalization of the geometry of parallelizable manifolds, or the absolute parallelism (AP-) geometry, in the context of generalized Lagrange spaces. All geometric objects defined in this geometry are not only functions of the positional argument $x$, but also depend on the directional argument $y$. In other words, instead of dealing with geometric objects defined on the manifold $M$, as in the case of classical AP-geometry, we are dealing with geometric objects in the pullback bundle $\pi^{-1}(TM)$ (the pullback of the tangent bundle $TM$ by $ \pi: T M\longrightarrow M$). Many new geometric objects, which have no counterpart in the classical AP-geometry, emerge in this more general context. We refer to such a geometry as generalized AP-geometry (GAP-geometry). In analogy to AP-geometry, we define a $d$-connection in $\pi^{-1}(TM)$ having remarkable properties, which we call the canonical $d$-connection, in terms of the unique torsion-free Riemannian $d$-connection. In addition to these two $d$-connections, two more $d$-connections are defined, the dual and the symmetric $d$-connections. Our space, therefore, admits twelve curvature tensors (corresponding to the four defined $d$-connections), three of which vanish identically. Simple formulae for the nine non-vanishing curvatures tensors are obtained, in terms of the torsion tensors of the canonical $d$-connection. The different $W$-tensors admitted by the space are also calculated. All contractions of the $h$- and $v$-curvature tensors and the $W$-tensors are derived. Second rank symmetric and skew-symmetric tensors, which prove useful in physical applications, are singled out. 
0704.02002	Fluctuation dynamo and turbulent induction at low magnetic Prandtl  numbers	Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)	Authors:A. A. Schekochihin (Imperial), A. B. Iskakov (UCLA), S. C. Cowley (UCLA), J. C. McWilliams (UCLA), M. R. E. Proctor (Cambridge), T. A. Yousef (Cambridge)	 Abstract: This paper is a detailed report on a programme of simulations used to settle a long-standing issue in the dynamo theory and demonstrate that the fluctuation dynamo exists in the limit of large magnetic Reynolds number Rm>>1 and small magnetic Prandtl number Pm<<1. The dependence of the critical Rm_c vs. the hydrodynamic Reynolds number Re is obtained for 1<Re<6700. In the limit Pm<<1, Rm_c is ~3 times larger than for Pm>1. The stability curve Rm_c(Re) (and, it is argued, the nature of the dynamo) is substantially different from the case of the simulations and liquid-metal experiments with a mean flow. It is not as yet possible to determine numerically whether the growth rate is ~Rm^{1/2} in the limit Re>>Rm>>1, as should be the case if the dynamo is driven by the inertial-range motions. The magnetic-energy spectrum in the low-Pm regime is qualitatively different from the Pm>1 case and appears to develop a negative spectral slope, although current resolutions are insufficient to determine its asymptotic form. At 1<Rm<Rm_c, the magnetic fluctuations induced via the tangling by turbulence of a weak mean field are investigated and the possibility of a k^{-1} spectrum above the resistive scale is examined. At low Rm<1, the induced fluctuations are well described by the quasistatic approximation; the k^{-11/3} spectrum is confirmed for the first time in direct numerical simulations. 
0704.02003	Scaling laws of strategic behaviour and size heterogeneity in agent  dynamics	Statistical Finance (q-fin.ST)	Authors:Gabriella Vaglica, Fabrizio Lillo, Esteban Moro, Rosario N. Mantegna	 Abstract: The dynamics of many socioeconomic systems is determined by the decision making process of agents. The decision process depends on agent's characteristics, such as preferences, risk aversion, behavioral biases, etc.. In addition, in some systems the size of agents can be highly heterogeneous leading to very different impacts of agents on the system dynamics. The large size of some agents poses challenging problems to agents who want to control their impact, either by forcing the system in a given direction or by hiding their intentionality. Here we consider the financial market as a model system, and we study empirically how agents strategically adjust the properties of large orders in order to meet their preference and minimize their impact. We quantify this strategic behavior by detecting scaling relations of allometric nature between the variables characterizing the trading activity of different institutions. We observe power law distributions in the investment time horizon, in the number of transactions needed to execute a large order and in the traded value exchanged by large institutions and we show that heterogeneity of agents is a key ingredient for the emergence of some aggregate properties characterizing this complex system. 
0704.02004	Fractal dimension of domain walls in two-dimensional Ising spin glasses	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:O. Melchert, A. K. Hartmann	 Abstract: We study domain walls in 2d Ising spin glasses in terms of a minimum-weight path problem. Using this approach, large systems can be treated exactly. Our focus is on the fractal dimension $d_f$ of domain walls, which describes via $<\ell >\simL^{d_f}$ the growth of the average domain-wall length with %% systems size $L\times L$. %% 20.07.07 OM %% Exploring systems up to L=320 we yield $d_f=1.274(2)$ for the case of Gaussian disorder, i.e. a much higher accuracy compared to previous studies. For the case of bimodal disorder, where many equivalent domain walls exist due to the degeneracy of this model, we obtain a true lower bound $d_f=1.095(2)$ and a (lower) estimate $d_f=1.395(3)$ as upper bound. Furthermore, we study the distributions of the domain-wall lengths. Their scaling with system size can be described also only by the exponent $d_f$, i.e. the distributions are monofractal. Finally, we investigate the growth of the domain-wall width with system size (``roughness'') and find a linear behavior. 
0704.02005	On the formal cohomology of local rings	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:Peter Schenzel	 Abstract: Let $\mathfrak a$ denote an ideal of a local ring $(R, \mathfrak m).$ Let $M$ be a finitely generated $R$-module. There is a systematic study of the formal cohomology modules $\varprojlim \HH^i(M/\mathfrak a^nM), i \in \mathbb Z.$ We analyze their $R$-module structure, the upper and lower vanishing and non-vanishing in terms of intrinsic data of $M,$ and its functorial behavior. These cohomology modules occur in relation to the formal completion of the punctured spectrum $\Spec R \setminus V(\mathfrak m).$ As a new cohomological data there is a description on the formal grade $\fgrade(\mathfrak a, M)$ defined as the minimal non-vanishing of the formal cohomology modules. There are various exact sequences concerning the formal cohomology modules. Among them a Mayer-Vietoris sequence for two ideals. It applies to new connectedness results. There are also relations to local cohomological dimensions. 
0704.02006	Two-particle scattering matrix of two interacting mesoscopic conductors	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:M. C. Goorden, M. Buttiker	 Abstract: We consider two quantum coherent conductors interacting weakly via long range Coulomb forces. We describe the interaction in terms of two-particle collisions described by a two-particle scattering matrix. As an example we determine the transmission probability and correlations in a two-particle scattering experiment and find that the results can be expressed in terms of the density-of-states matrices of the non-interacting scatterers. 
0704.02007	On Lyubeznik's invariants and endomorphisms of local cohomology modules	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:Peter Schenzel	 Abstract: Let $(R, \mathfrak m)$ denote an $n$-dimensional Gorenstein ring. For an ideal $I \subset R$ of height $c$ we are interested in the endomorphism ring $B = \Hom_R(H^c_I(R), H^c_I(R)).$ It turns out that $B$ is a commutative ring. In the case of $(R,\mathfrak m)$ a regular local ring containing a field $B$ is a Cohen-Macaulay ring. Its properties are related to the highest Lyubeznik number $l = \dim_k \Ext_R^d(k,H^c_I(R)).$ In particular $R \simeq B$ if and only if $l = 1.$ Moreover, we show that the natural homomorphism $\Ext_R^d(k, H^c_I(R)) \to k$ is non-zero. 
0704.02008	Observations of Manifestations of Skeletal Structures of a Filamentary  Matter on the Sun	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Valentin. A. Rantsev-Kartinov	 Abstract: The analysis of databases of photographic images of the Sun (obtained in region of soft x-ray) by means of a method of multilevel dynamical contrasting, has shown presence of skeletal structures of the Sun as outside (chromo-sphere flashes and powerful coronal mass ejections) and on the Sun (structures in its atmosphere, protuberances and of solar a stains). Moreover the structures which radius of rotation is less than radius of a solar disk on breadth of their observation have been revealed. On the basis of the obtained results of this analysis, the author puts forward a hypothesis about an opportunity of existence of some filamentary matter as inside, so outside of the Sun. 
0704.02009	On Virasoro Constraints for Orbifold Gromov-Witten Theory	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yunfeng Jiang, Hsian-Hua Tseng	 Abstract: Virasoro constraints for orbifold Gromov-Witten theory are described. These constraints are applied to the degree zreo, genus zero orbifold Gromov-Witten potentials of the weighted projective stacks $\mathbb{P}(1,N)$, $\mathbb{P}(1,1,N)$ and $\mathbb{P}(1,1,1,N)$ to obtain formulas of descendant cyclic Hurwitz-Hodge integrals. 
0704.02010	A study of structural properties on profiles HMMs	Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)	Authors:Juliana S Bernardes, Alberto Davila, Vitor Santos Costa, Gerson Zaverucha	 Abstract: Motivation: Profile hidden Markov Models (pHMMs) are a popular and very useful tool in the detection of the remote homologue protein families. Unfortunately, their performance is not always satisfactory when proteins are in the 'twilight zone'. We present HMMER-STRUCT, a model construction algorithm and tool that tries to improve pHMM performance by using structural information while training pHMMs. As a first step, HMMER-STRUCT constructs a set of pHMMs. Each pHMM is constructed by weighting each residue in an aligned protein according to a specific structural property of the residue. Properties used were primary, secondary and tertiary structures, accessibility and packing. HMMER-STRUCT then prioritizes the results by voting. Results: We used the SCOP database to perform our experiments. Throughout, we apply leave-one-family-out cross-validation over protein superfamilies. First, we used the MAMMOTH-mult structural aligner to align the training set proteins. Then, we performed two sets of experiments. In a first experiment, we compared structure weighted models against standard pHMMs and against each other. In a second experiment, we compared the voting model against individual pHMMs. We compare method performance through ROC curves and through Precision/Recall curves, and assess significance through the paired two tailed t-test. Our results show significant performance improvements of all structurally weighted models over default HMMER, and a significant improvement in sensitivity of the combined models over both the original model and the structurally weighted models. 
0704.02011	Self consistency in hadron physics	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:M.F.M. Lutz, C.L. Korpa, A. Semke	 Abstract: In this talk we discuss at hand of two examples the crucial role played by self consistency in hadron physics. The first example concerns the quark-mass dependence of the baryon octet and decuplet masses. It is shown that within a self consistent one-loop approach based on the chiral Lagrangian the 'mysterious' quark-mass dependence of the $\Xi$ mass predicted by the MILC collaboration may be recovered in terms of a discontinuous chiral extrapolation. This is a consequence of self consistency imposed on the partial summation, i.e. the masses used in the loop functions are identical to those obtained from the baryon self energies. In the second example we discuss recent studies on the properties of D mesons in cold nuclear matter as they are predicted by coupled-channel dynamics. Here a self consistent many-body approach reveals the close interlink of the properties of D meson and open-charm baryon resonances in nuclear matter. The relevance of exotic baryon resonances for the spectral distortion of the $D_s^\pm$ in nuclear matter is pointed out. 
0704.02012	Symmetry and Numerical Solutions for Systems of Non-linear Reaction  Diffusion Equations	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Sanjeev Kumar, Ravendra Singh	 Abstract: Many important applications are available for nonlinear reaction-diffusion equation especially in the area of biology and engineering. Therefore a mathematical model for Lie symmetry reduction of system of nonlinear reaction-diffusion equation with respect to one-dimensional Algebra is carried out in this work. Some classes of analytical and numerical solutions are obtained and expressed using suitable graphs. 
0704.02013	The conical singularity method and the energy-momentum tensor near the  black hole horizon using the Kruskal coordinates	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:M. Alves	 Abstract: We apply the conical singularity method to the two dimensional version of the Schwarzschild metric to obtain the Kruskal coordinates of the black hole in a very simple and direct way. Then we make use of this metric in an approximated version and calculate the expected value of energy-momentum tensor of a massless quantum field near the horizon, resulting in regular expressions for its components. 
0704.02014	Extensive Games with Possibly Unaware Players	Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)	Authors:Joseph Y. Halpern, Leandro C. Rêgo	 Abstract: Standard game theory assumes that the structure of the game is common knowledge among players. We relax this assumption by considering extensive games where agents may be unaware of the complete structure of the game. In particular, they may not be aware of moves that they and other agents can make. We show how such games can be represented; the key idea is to describe the game from the point of view of every agent at every node of the game tree. We provide a generalization of Nash equilibrium and show that every game with awareness has a generalized Nash equilibrium. Finally, we extend these results to games with awareness of unawareness, where a player i may be aware that a player j can make moves that i is not aware of, and to subjective games, where payers may have no common knowledge regarding the actual game and their beliefs are incompatible with a common prior. 
0704.02015	Supernova Remnants and GLAST	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Patrick Slane	 Abstract: It has long been speculated that supernova remnants represent a major source of cosmic rays in the Galaxy. Observations over the past decade have ceremoniously unveiled direct evidence of particle acceleration in SNRs to energies approaching the knee of the cosmic ray spectrum. Nonthermal X-ray emission from shell-type SNRs reveals multi-TeV electrons, and the dynamical properties of several SNRs point to efficient acceleration of ions. Observations of TeV gamma-ray emission have confirmed the presence of energetic particles in several remnants as well, but there remains considerable debate as to whether this emission originates with high energy electrons or ions. Equally uncertain are the exact conditions that lead to efficient particle acceleration. Based on the catalog of EGRET sources, we know that there is a large population of Galactic gamma-ray sources whose distribution is similar to that of SNRs. With the increased resolution and sensitivity of GLAST, the gamma-ray SNRs from this population will be identified. Their detailed emission structure, along with their spectra, will provide the link between their environments and their spectra in other wavebands to constrain emission models and to potentially identify direct evidence of ion acceleration in SNRs. Here I summarize recent observational and theoretical work in the area of cosmic ray acceleration by SNRs, and discuss the contributions GLAST will bring to our understanding of this problem. 
0704.02016	The author replies	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:Michael Creutz	 Abstract: I respond to the Bernard et al. comment on my letter ``Chiral anomalies and rooted staggered fermions.'' 
0704.02017	Large System Analysis of Game-Theoretic Power Control in UWB Wireless  Networks with Rake Receivers	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:G. Bacci, M. Luise, H.V. Poor	 Abstract: This paper studies the performance of partial-Rake (PRake) receivers in impulse-radio ultrawideband wireless networks when an energy-efficient power control scheme is adopted. Due to the large bandwidth of the system, the multipath channel is assumed to be frequency-selective. By using noncooperative game-theoretic models and large system analysis, explicit expressions are derived in terms of network parameters to measure the effects of self- and multiple-access interference at a receiving access point. Performance of the PRake is compared in terms of achieved utilities and loss to that of the all-Rake receiver. 
0704.02018	On a new version of the Ito's formula for the stochastic heat equation	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Alberto Lanconelli	 Abstract: We derive an It\^o's-type formula for the one dimensional stochastic heat equation driven by a space-time white noise. The proof is based on elementary properties of the $\mathcal{S}$-transform and on the explicit representation of the solution process. We also discuss the relationship with other versions of this It\^o's-type formula existing in literature. 
0704.02019	Probabilités et fluctuations quantiques (Probabilities and quantum  fluctuations)	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Michel Fliess (LIX, Inria Futurs)	 Abstract: This note is sketching a simple and natural mathematical construction for explaining the probabilistic nature of quantum mechanics. It employs nonstandard analysis and is based on Feynman's interpretation of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, i.e., of the quantum fluctuations, which was brought to the forefront in some fractal approaches. It results, as in Nelson's stochastic mechanics, in stochastic differential equations which are deduced from infinitesimal random walks. An extended english abstract gives most of the details. 
0704.02020	Neutrino Dark Energy and Baryon Asymmetry from Higgs Sector	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Pei-Hong Gu, Hong-Jian He, Utpal Sarkar	 Abstract: We propose a new model to explain the neutrino masses, the dark energy and the baryon asymmetry altogether. In this model, neutrinos naturally acquire small Majorana masses via type-II seesaw mechanism, while the pseudo-Nambu-Goldstone bosons associated with the neutrino mass-generation mechanism provide attractive candidates for dark energy. The baryon asymmetry of the universe is produced from the Higgs triplets decay with CP-violation. 
0704.02021	Mass Shift and Width Broadening of J/psi in hot gluonic plasma from QCD  Sum Rules	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Kenji Morita, Su Houng Lee	 Abstract: We investigate possible mass shift and width broadening of J/psi in hot gluonic matter using QCD sum rule. Input values of gluon condensates at finite temperature are extracted from lattice QCD data for the energy density and pressure. Although stability of the moment ratio is achieved only up to T/Tc ~ 1.05, the gluon condensates cause a decrease of the moment ratio, which results in change of spectral properties. Using the Breit-Wigner form for the phenomenological side, we find that mass shift of J/psi just above Tc can reach maximally 200 MeV and width can broaden to dozens of MeV. 
0704.02022	Extending real-valued characters of finite general linear and unitary  groups on elements related to regular unipotents	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Rod Gow, C. Ryan Vinroot	 Abstract: When n is odd, consider the finite general linear and unitary groups of rank n, extended by the inverse transpose automorphism. There are elements in the extended groups which square to a regular unipotent element, and we evaluate the values of irreducible characters of the extended groups on these elements. Several intermediate results on real conjugacy classes and real-valued characters of these groups are obtained along the way. 
0704.02023	Ordered addition of two Lorentz boosts through spatial and space-time  rotations	Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)	Authors:Chandru Iyer, G. M. Prabhu	 Abstract: The ordered addition of two Lorentz boosts is normally shown to result in a boost by utilizing concepts from group theory and non-Euclidian geometry. We present a method for achieving this addition by performing a sequence of spatial rotations and uni-dimensional Lorentz transformations. The method is first developed for two-dimensional space and it is then extended to three-dimensional space by utilizing the commutative property of the rotation of the y-z plane and a boost along the x-axis. The method employs only matrix multiplication and certain invariant quantities that are natural consequences of spatial rotations and Lorentz transformations. The combining of two boosts in different directions into a single boost cannot be expected a priori because we show that the converse of this statement is not true. That is, two rotations interspersed with a boost cannot always be reduced to a single rotation preceded and followed by boosts. 
0704.02024	A Tight-Binding Grand Canonical Monte Carlo Study of the Catalytic  Growth of Carbon Nanotubes	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Hakim Amara (LPS, PCPM, CERMIN), Christophe Bichara (CRMCN), François Ducastelle (LEM)	 Abstract: The nucleation of carbon nanotubes on small nickel clusters is studied using a tight binding model coupled to grand canonical Monte Carlo simulations. This technique closely follows the conditions of the synthesis of carbon nanotubes by chemical vapor deposition. The possible formation of a carbon cap on the catalyst particle is studied as a function of the carbon chemical potential, for particles of different size, either crystalline or disordered. We show that these parameters strongly influence the structure of the cap/particle interface which in turn will have a strong effect on the control of the structure of the nanotube. In particular, we discuss the presence of carbon on surface or in subsurface layers. 
0704.02025	A Note on Sums of Powers	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Peng Gao	 Abstract: We improve a result of Bennett concerning certain sequences involving sums of powers of positive integers. 
0704.02026	Adhesion forces due to nano-triboelectrification between similar  materials	Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)	Authors:Christelle Guerret-Piecourt (PCP, IFoS), Sandrine Bec (LTDS), Frédéric Ségault (LTDS), Denyse Juvé (IFoS), Daniel Tréheux (IFoS), André Tonck (LTDS)	 Abstract: Contact electrification and triboelectrification are well-known in the case of dissimilar materials, however the case of charge exchange during friction between nominally identical insulating materials is less documented. We experimentally investigated the triboelectrification between two smooth monocrystalline &#945;-Al 2O 3 (sapphire) antagonists by surface force measurements with a Surface Force Apparatus (SFA). The force between a sphere and a plane, both in sapphire, was measured as a function of the sphere-plane distance D, before and after nano-friction tests, under dry argon atmosphere. Respective contributions of van der Waals, water meniscus and electrostatic forces were determined. The estimated Hamaker constant was in good agreement with the Lifshitz theory, and the dominant meniscus attraction at low separation could be overcome with small radius sphere. We demonstrated that electrostatic forces were generated by the nano-friction test and we quantified the adhesion that results from this contact-electrification. In the first stage of the unloading process, the short range electrostatic force was found to vary both with time and distance D. Experimental results were correlated with surface densities of mobile charges on the two surfaces, and the time-dependence was related to classical surface transport phenomena on alumina surfaces. 
0704.02027	Quantum teleportation with atoms: quantum process tomography	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:M. Riebe, M. Chwalla, J. Benhelm, H. Haeffner, W. Haensel, C. F. Roos, R. Blatt	 Abstract: The performance of a quantum teleportation algorithm implemented on an ion trap quantum computer is investigated. First the algorithm is analyzed in terms of the teleportation fidelity of six input states evenly distributed over the Bloch sphere. Furthermore, a quantum process tomography of the teleportation algorithm is carried out which provides almost complete knowledge about the algorithm. 
0704.02028	Bound hole states in a ferromagnetic (Ga,Mn)As environment	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:M.J. Schmidt, K. Pappert, C. Gould, G. Schmidt, R. Oppermann, L.W. Molenkamp	 Abstract: A numerical technique is developed to solve the Luttinger-Kohn equation for impurity states directly in k-space and is applied to calculate bound hole wave functions in a ferromagnetic (Ga,Mn)As host. The rich properties of the band structure of an arbitrarily strained, ferromagnetic zinc-blende semiconductor yields various features which have direct impact on the detailed shape of a valence band hole bound to an active impurity. The role of strain is discussed on the basis of explicit calculations of bound hole states. 
0704.02029	The Hopf Algebra Structure of the Character Rings of Classical Groups	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Bertfried Fauser, Peter D. Jarvis, Ronald C. King	 Abstract: The character ring \CGL of covariant irreducible tensor representations of the general linear group admits a Hopf algebra structure isomorphic to the Hopf algebra \Sym$ of symmetric functions. Here we study the character rings \CO and \CSp of the orthogonal and symplectic subgroups of the general linear group within the same framework of symmetric functions. We show that \CO and \CSp also admit natural Hopf algebra structures that are isomorphic to that of \CGL, and hence to \Sym. The isomorphisms are determined explicitly, along with the specification of standard bases for \CO and \CSp analogous to those used for \Sym. A major structural change arising from the adoption of these bases is the introduction of new orthogonal and symplectic Schur-Hall scalar products. Significantly, the adjoint with respect to multiplication no longer coincides, as it does in the \CGL case, with a Foulkes derivative or skew operation. The adjoint and Foulkes derivative now require separate definitions, and their properties are explored here in the orthogonal and symplectic cases. Moreover, the Hopf algebras \CO and \CSp are not self-dual. The dual Hopf algebras \CO^* and \CSp^* are identified. Finally, the Hopf algebra of the universal rational character ring \CGLrat of mixed irreducible tensor representations of the general linear group is introduced and its structure maps identified. 
0704.02030	New Approach to Arakelov Geometry	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Nikolai Durov (Max Planck Institute for Mathematics, St.Petersburg State University)	 Abstract: This work is dedicated to a new completely algebraic approach to Arakelov geometry, which doesn't require the variety under consideration to be generically smooth or projective. In order to construct such an approach we develop a theory of generalized rings and schemes, which include classical rings and schemes together with "exotic" objects such as F_1 ("field with one element"), Z_\infty ("real integers"), T (tropical numbers) etc., thus providing a systematic way of studying such objects. This theory of generalized rings and schemes is developed up to construction of algebraic K-theory, intersection theory and Chern classes. Then existence of Arakelov models of algebraic varieties over Q is shown, and our general results are applied to such models. 
0704.02031	Hyperbolic Balance Laws with a Non Local Source	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Rinaldo M. Colombo, Graziano Guerra	 Abstract: This paper is devoted to hyperbolic systems of balance laws with non local source terms. The existence, uniqueness and Lipschitz dependence proved here comprise previous results in the literature and can be applied to physical models, such as Euler system for a radiating gas and Rosenau regularization of the Chapman-Enskog expansion. 
0704.02032	Effects of the galactic winds on the stellar metallicity distribution of  dwarf spheroidal galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Gustavo A. Lanfranchi (1), Francesca Matteucci (2,3),  ((1)Nucleo de Astrofisica Teorica-UNICSUL, Brazil (2) Dipartimento di Astronomia-Universita di Trieste, Italy, (3) I.N.A.F. Osservatorio Astronomico di Trieste, Italy)	 Abstract: To study the effects of galactic winds on the stellar metallicity distributions and on the evolution of Draco and Ursa Minor dwarf spheroidal galaxies, we compared the predictions of several chemical evolution models, adopting different prescriptions for the galactic winds, with the photometrically-derived stellar metallicity distributions of both galaxies. The chemical evolution models for Draco and Ursa Minor, which are able to reproduce several observational features of these two galaxies, such as the several abundance ratios, take up-to-date nucleosynthesis into account for intermediate-mass stars and supernovae of both types, as well as the effect of these objects on the energetics of the systems. For both galaxies, the model that best fits the data contains an intense continuous galactic wind, occurring at a rate proportional to the star formation rate. Models with a wind rate assumed to be proportional only to the supernova rate also reproduce the observed SMD, but do not match the gas mass, whereas the models with no galactic winds fail to reproduce the observed SMDs. In the case of Ursa Minor, the same model as in previous works reproduces the observed distribution very well with no need to modify the main parameters of the model. The model for Draco, on the other hand, is slightly modified. The observed SMD requires a model with a lower supernova type Ia thermalization efficiency ($\eta_{SNeIa}$ = 0.5 instead of $\eta_{SNeIa}$ = 1.0) in order to delay the galactic wind, whereas all the other parameters are kept the same. The model results, compared to observations, strongly suggest that intense and continuous galactic winds play a very important role in the evolution of local dSphs. 
0704.02033	The Quantum Interference Computer: an experimental proposal	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:A.Y. Shiekh	 Abstract: An experiment is proposed to test the interference aspect of the Quantum Interference Computer approach 
0704.02034	The Crepant Resolution Conjecture for Type A Surface Singularities	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Tom Coates, Alessio Corti, Hiroshi Iritani, Hsian-Hua Tseng	 Abstract: Let X be an orbifold with crepant resolution Y. The Crepant Resolution Conjectures of Ruan and Bryan-Graber assert, roughly speaking, that the quantum cohomology of X becomes isomorphic to the quantum cohomology of Y after analytic continuation in certain parameters followed by the specialization of some of these parameters to roots of unity. We prove these conjectures in the case where X is a surface singularity of type A. The key ingredient is mirror symmetry for toric orbifolds. 
0704.02035	Vacuum as a less hostile environment to entanglement	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Petr Marek, Jinhyoung Lee, M. S. Kim	 Abstract: We derive sufficient conditions for infinite-dimensional systems whose entanglement is not completely lost in a finite time during its decoherence by a passive interaction with local vacuum environments. The sufficient conditions allow us to clarify a class of bipartite entangled states which preserve their entanglement or, in other words, are tolerant against decoherence in a vacuum. We also discuss such a class for entangled qubits. 
0704.02036	Polymer adhesion: first-principles calculations of the adsorption of  organic molecules onto Si surfaces	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Karen Johnston, Risto M. Nieminen	 Abstract: The structures and energetics of organic molecules adsorbed onto clean and H-passivated Si(001)-(2$\times$1) surfaces have been calculated using density functional theory. For benzene adsorbed on the clean Si surface the tight-bridge structure was found to be stable and the butterfly structure metastable. Both carbonic acid H$_2$CO$_3$ and propane C$_3$H$_8$ dissociate on contact with the surface. Passivation of the Si surface with H-atoms has a dramatic effect on the surface properties. The passivated surface is very inert and the binding energy of all the molecules is very weak. 
0704.02037	A CF3I-based SDD Prototype for Spin-independent Dark Matter Searches	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T. Morlata, M. Felizardo, F. Giuliani, TA Girard, G. Waysand, R.F. Payne, H.S. Miley, A.R. Ramos, J.G. Marques, R.C. Martins, D. Limagne	 Abstract: The application of Superheated Droplet Detectors (SDDs) to dark matter searches has so far been confined to the light nuclei refrigerants C2ClF5 and C4F10 (SIMPLE and PICASSO, respectively), with a principle sensitivity to spin-dependent interactions. Given the competitive results of these devices, as a result of their intrinsic insensitivity to backgrounds, we have developed a prototype trifluoroiodomethane (CF3I)-loaded SDD with increased sensitivity to spin-independent interactions as well. A low (0.102 kgd) exposure test operation of two high concentration, 1 liter devices is described, and the results compared with leading experiments in both spin-dependent and -independent sectors. Although competitive in both sectors when the difference in exposures is accounted for, a problem with fracturing of the detector gel must be addressed before significantly larger exposures can be envisioned. 
0704.02038	Non-Viability of a Counter-Argument to Bell's Theorem	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:M. Holman	 Abstract: It is demonstrated that a recently suggested model for the EPR-Bohm spin experiment, based on Clifford algebra valued local variables and observables, runs into very serious difficulties and can therefore not be taken as constituting a viable counter-example to Bell's theorem. 
0704.02039	Relativistic hydrodynamics - causality and stability	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:P. Ván, T. S. Biró	 Abstract: Causality and stability in relativistic dissipative hydrodynamics are important conceptual issues. We argue that causality is not restricted to hyperbolic set of differential equations. E.g. heat conduction equation can be causal considering the physical validity of the theory. Furthermore we propose a new concept of relativistic internal energy that clearly separates the dissipative and non-dissipative effects. We prove that with this choice we remove all known instabilities of the linear response approximation of viscous and heat conducting relativistic fluids. In this paper the Eckart choice of the velocity field is applied. 
0704.02040	A Bishop surface with a vanishing Bishop invariant	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Xiaojun Huang, Wanke Yin	 Abstract: We derive a complete set of invariants for a formal Bishop surface near a point of complex tangent with a vanishing Bishop invariant under the action of formal transformations. We prove that the modular space of Bishop surfaces with a vanishing Bishop invariant and with a fixed Moser invariant $s<\infty$ is of infinite dimension. We also prove that the equivalence class of the germ of a generic real analytic Bishop surface near a complex tangent with a vanishing Bishop invariant can not be determined by a finite part of the Taylor expansion of its defining equation. This answers, in the negative, a problem raised by J. Moser in 1985 after his joint work with Webster in 1983 and his own work in 1985. 
0704.02041	Bi-Lipschitz geometry of weighted homogeneous surface singularities	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Lev Birbrair, Alexandre Fernandes, Walter D. Neumann	 Abstract: We show that a weighted homogeneous complex surface singularity is metrically conical (i.e., bi-Lipschitz equivalent to a metric cone) only if its two lowest weights are equal. We also give an example of a pair of weighted homogeneous complex surface singularities that are topologically equivalent but not bi-Lipschitz equivalent. 
0704.02042	The No-Boundary Probability for the Universe starting at the top of the  hill	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Tim Clunan	 Abstract: We use the Hartle-Hawking No-Boundary Proposal to make a comparison between the probabilities of the universe starting near, and at, the top of a hill in the effective potential. In the context of top-down cosmology, our calculation finds that the universe doesn't start at the top. 
0704.02043	Enhanced Half-Metallicity in Edge-Oxidized Zigzag Graphene Nanoribbons	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Oded Hod, Veronica Barone, Juan E. Peralta, Gustavo E. Scuseria	 Abstract: We present a novel comprehensive first-principles theoretical study of the electronic properties and relative stabilities of edge-oxidized zigzag graphene nanoribbons. The oxidation schemes considered include hydroxyl, carboxyl, ether, and ketone groups. Using screened exchange density functional theory, we show that these oxidized ribbons are more stable than hydrogen-terminated nanoribbons except for the case of the etheric groups. The stable oxidized configurations maintain a spin-polarized ground state with antiferromagnetic ordering localized at the edges, similar to the fully hydrogenated counterparts. More important, edge oxidation is found to lower the onset electric field required to induce half-metallic behavior and extend the overall field range at which the systems remain half-metallic. Once the half-metallic state is reached, further increase of the external electric field intensity produces a rapid decrease in the spin magnetization up to a point where the magnetization is quenched completely. Finally, we find that oxygen containing edge groups have a minor effect on the energy difference between the antiferromagnetic ground state and the above-lying ferromagnetic state. 
0704.02044	Vertices from replica in a random matrix theory	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:E. Brezin, S. Hikami	 Abstract: Kontsevitch's work on Airy matrix integrals has led to explicit results for the intersection numbers of the moduli space of curves. In a subsequent work Okounkov rederived these results from the edge behavior of a Gaussian matrix integral. In our work we consider the correlation functions of vertices in a Gaussian random matrix theory, with an external matrix source, in a scaling limit in which the powers of the matrices and their sizes go to infinity simultaneously in a specified scale. We show that the replica method applied to characteristic polynomials of the random matrices, together with a duality exchanging N and the number of points, allows one to recover Kontsevich's results on the intersection numbers, through a simple saddle-point analysis. 
0704.02045	Higgs Bosons, Electroweak Symmetry Breaking, and the Physics of the  Large Hadron Collider	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Chris Quigg	 Abstract: The Large Hadron Collider, a 7 + 7 TeV proton-proton collider under construction at CERN (the European Laboratory for Particle Physics in Geneva), will take experiments squarely into a new energy domain where mysteries of the electroweak interaction will be unveiled. What marks the 1-TeV scale as an important target? Why is understanding how the electroweak symmetry is hidden important to our conception of the world around us? What expectations do we have for the agent that hides the electroweak symmetry? Why do particle physicists anticipate a great harvest of discoveries within reach of the LHC? 
0704.02046	Combinatorial structure of Kirillov-Reshetikhin crystals of type D_n(1),  B_n(1), A_{2n-1}(2)	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Anne Schilling	 Abstract: We provide the explicit combinatorial structure of the Kirillov-Reshetikhin crystals B^{r,s} of type D_n(1), B_n(1), and A_{2n-1}(2). This is achieved by constructing the crystal analogue sigma of the automorphism of the D_n(1) (resp. B_n(1) or A_{2n-1}(2)) Dynkin diagram that interchanges the 0 and 1 node. The involution sigma is defined in terms of new plus-minus diagrams that govern the D_n to D_{n-1} (resp. B_n to B_{n-1}, or C_n to C_{n-1}) branching. It is also shown that the crystal B^{r,s} is perfect. These crystals have been implemented in MuPAD-Combinat; the implementation is discussed in terms of many examples. 
0704.02047	Comment on the statistical analysis in "A new experimental limit for the  stability of the electron" by H.V. Klapdor-Kleingrothaus, I.V. Krivosheina  and I.V. Titkova	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:A.Derbin, A.Ianni, O.Smirnov	 Abstract: We point out the evident errors in statistical analysis of the data, performed by Klapdor-Kleingrothaus et al in recently published paper to establish a limit on the stability of electron with respect to the decay into $\nu+\gamma$. We performed the reestimation of the sensitivity of the experimental setups to the 256 keV gamma emitted in the hypothetical electron decay, and show that in [1] the limits on the electron stability and charge nonconservation parameter $\epsilon_{e\nu\gamma}^{2}$ are overestimated by at least a factor of 5. We have revealed evident errors in the statistical analysis, performed by Klapdor-Kleingrothaus et al in a recently published paper [1] to establish a limit on the stability of electron with respect to the decay into $\nu+\gamma$. The performed reestimation of the sensitivity of the experimental setups to the 256 keV gamma emitted in the hypothetical electron decay, has shown that the limits on the electron stability and charge nonconservation parameter $\epsilon_{e\nu\gamma}^{2}$ presented in [1], have been overestimated by at least a factor of 5. 
0704.02048	Combinatorial Gray codes for classes of pattern avoiding permutations	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:W.M.B. Dukes, Mark F. Flanagan, Toufik Mansour, V. Vajnovszki	 Abstract: The past decade has seen a flurry of research into pattern avoiding permutations but little of it is concerned with their exhaustive generation. Many applications call for exhaustive generation of permutations subject to various constraints or imposing a particular generating order. In this paper we present generating algorithms and combinatorial Gray codes for several families of pattern avoiding permutations. Among the families under consideration are those counted by Catalan, Schr\"oder, Pell, even index Fibonacci numbers and the central binomial coefficients. Consequently, this provides Gray codes for $\s_n(\tau)$ for all $\tau\in \s_3$ and the obtained Gray codes have distances 4 and 5. 
0704.02049	Magnetosonic solitons in a Fermionic quantum plasma	Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)	Authors:M. Marklund, B. Eliasson, P. K. Shukla	 Abstract: Starting from the governing equations for a quantum magnetoplasma including the quantum Bohm potential and electron spin-1/2 effects, we show that the system of quantum magnetohydrodynamic (QMHD) equations admit rarefactive solitons due to the balance between nonlinearities and quantum diffraction/tunneling effects. It is found that the electron spin-1/2 effect introduces a pressure-like term with negative sign in the QMHD equations, which modifies the shape of the solitary magnetosonic waves and makes them wider and shallower. Numerical simulations of the time-dependent system shows the development of rarefactive QMHD solitary waves that are modified by the spin effects. 
0704.02050	A duality approach to representations of Baumslag-Solitar groups	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Dorin Ervin Dutkay, Palle E.T. Jorgensen	 Abstract: We give an operator theoretic approach to the constructions of multiresolutions as they are used in a number of basis constructions with wavelets, and in Hilbert spaces on fractals. Our approach starts with the following version of the classical Baumslag-Solitar relations $u t = t^2 u$ where $t$ is a unitary operator in a Hilbert space $\mathcal H$ and $u$ is an isometry in $\mathcal H$. There are isometric dilations of this system into a bigger Hilbert space, relevant for wavelets. For a variety of carefully selected dilations, the ``bigger'' Hilbert space may be $L^2(\br)$, and the dilated operators may be the unitary operators which define a dyadic wavelet multiresolutions of $L^2(\br)$ with the subspace $\mathcal H$ serving as the corresponding resolution subspace. That is, the initialized resolution which is generated by the wavelet scaling function(s). In the dilated Hilbert space, the Baumslag-Solitar relations then take the more familiar form $u t u^{-1} = t^2$. We offer an operator theoretic framework including the standard construction; and we show how the representations of certain discrete semidirect group products serve to classify the possibilities. For this we analyze and compare several types of unitary representations of these semidirect products: the induced representations in Mackey's theory, the wavelet representations on $L^2(\br)$, the irreducible representation on the dual, the finite dimensional representations, and the the regular representation. 
0704.02051	A 610 MHz Survey of the 1H XMM-Newton/Chandra Survey Field	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D. Moss, N. Seymour, I. M. McHardy, T. Dwelly, M. J. Page, N. S. Loaring	 Abstract: We present the results of a deep 610 MHz survey of the 1^H XMM/Chandra survey area with the GMRT. The resulting maps have a resolution of ~7 arcsec and an rms noise limit of 60 microJy. To a 5 sigma detection limit of 300 microJy we detect 223 sources within a survey area of diameter 64 arcmin. We compute the 610 MHz source counts and compare them to those measured at other radio wavelengths. The well know flattening of the Euclidean-normalised 1.4 GHz source counts below ~2 mJy, usually explained by a population of starburst galaxies undergoing luminosity evolution, is seen at 610 MHz. The 610 MHz source counts can be modelled by the same populations that explain the 1.4 GHz source counts, assuming a spectral index of -0.7 for the starburst galaxies and the steep spectrum AGN population. We find a similar dependence of luminosity evolution on redshift for the starburst galaxies at 610 MHz as is found at 1.4 GHz (i.e. 'Q'= 2.45 (+0.3,-0.4)). 
0704.02052	Measurement of K^{-}_{e3} branching ratio	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:V. I. Romanovsky (1), S. A. Akimenko (1), G. I. Britvich (1), K. V. Datsko (1), A. P. Filin (1), A. V. Inyakin (1), A. S. Konstantinov (1), I. Y. Korolkov (1), V. A. Khmelnikov (1), V. M. Leontiev (1), V. P. Novikov (1), V. F. Obraztsov (1), V. A. Polyakov (1), V. I. Shelikhov (1), O. G. Tchikilev (1), V. A. Uvarov (1), O.P. Yushchenko (1), V. N. Bolotov (2), V. A. Duk (2), S. V. Laptev (2), A. Yu. Polyarush (2) ((1) Institute for High Energy Physics Protvino Russia, (2) Institute for Nuclear Research Moscow Russia)	 Abstract: The branching fraction for the decay $K^{-} \to \pi^{0} e \bar \nu$ is measured using in-flight decays detected with {\bf ISTRA+} setup working at the 25 GeV negative secondary beam of the U-70 PS:\linebreak $Br_{K_{e3}}= (5.124 \pm 0.009 (stat) \pm 0.029(norm) \pm 0.030(syst))%$. From this value the $|V_{us}|$ element of the CKM matrix is extracted, using previously measured $f_{+}(t)$ form factor: $|V_{us}|=0.227 \pm 0.002$. The results are in agreement with recent measurements by BNL E865, FNAL KTeV, KLOE. 
0704.02053	Millimeter and Radio Observations of z~6 Quasars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ran Wang, Chris Carilli, Alexandre Beelen, Frank Bertoldi, Xiaohui Fan, Fabian Walter, Karl M. Menten, Alain Omont, Pierre Cox, Michael A. Strauss, Linhua Jiang	 Abstract: We present millimeter and radio observations of 13 SDSS quasars at reshifts z~6. We observed eleven of them with the Max-Planck Millimeter Bolometer Array (MAMBO-2) at the IRAM 30m-telescope at 250 GHz and all of them with the Very Large Array (VLA) at 1.4 GHz. Four sources are detected by MAMBO-2 and six are detected by the VLA at >=3 sigma level. These sources, together with another 6 published in previous papers,yield a submillimeter/millimeter and radio observed SDSS quasar sample at z~6. We use this sample to investigate the far-infrared (FIR) andradio properties of optically bright quasars in the early universe. We compare this sample to lower redshift samples of quasars observed inthe submillimeter and millimeter wavelengths ((sub)mm), and find that the distribution of the FIR to B band optical luminosity ratio (L_FIR/L_B) is similar from z~2 to 6. We find a weak correlation between the FIR luminosity (L_FIR) and B band optical luminosity (L_B) byincluding the (sub)mm observed samples at all redshifts. Some strong (sub)mm detections in the z~6 sample have radio-to-FIR ratios within the range defined by star forming galaxies, which suggests possible co-eval star forming activity with the powerful AGN in these sources. We calculate the rest frame radio to optical ratios (R*_1.4=L_{v, 1.4GHz}/L_{v, 4400A}) for all of the VLA observed sources in the z~6 quasar sample. Only one radio detection in this sample, J083643.85+005453.3, has R*_1.4~40 and can be considered radio loud. There are no strong radio sources (R*_1.4>=100) among these SDSS quasars at z~6. These data are consistent with, although do not set strong constraints on, a decreasing radio-loud quasar fraction with increasing redshift. 
0704.02054	Vortex Formation by Merging and Interference of Multiple Trapped  Bose-Einstein Condensates	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:David R. Scherer	 Abstract: An apparatus for producing atomic-gas Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) of 87-Rb atoms is described. The apparatus produces 87-Rb BECs in a dual-chamber vacuum system that incorporates magnetic transport of trapped atoms from the magneto-optical trapping cell to the BEC production cell via the operation of a series of overlapping magnet coils. The design, construction, and operation of the apparatus are described in detail. The apparatus is used to study the creation of quantized vortices in BECs by the merging and interference of multiple trapped condensates. In this experiment, a single harmonic potential well is partitioned into three sections by an optical barrier, enabling the simultaneous formation of three independent, uncorrelated BECs. The BECs may either merge together during their growth, or, for high-energy barriers, the BECs can be merged together by barrier removal after their formation. Either process may instigate vortex formation in the resulting BEC, depending on the initially indeterminate relative phases of the condensates and the merging rate. 
0704.02055	A biased view of symplectic cohomology	Symplectic Geometry (math.SG)	Authors:Paul Seidel	 Abstract: These are lecture notes from my talks at the "Current Developments in Mathematics" conference (Harvard, 2006). They cover a variety of topics involving symplectic cohomology. In particular, a discussion of (algorithmic) classification issues in symplectic and contact topology is included. 
0704.02056	Bound State Calculations of the Three-Dimensional Yakubovsky Equations  with the inclusion of Three-Body Forces	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:M. R. Hadizadeh, S. Bayegan	 Abstract: The four-body Yakubovsky equations in a Three-Dimensional approach with the inclusion of the three-body forces is proposed. The four-body bound state with two- and three-body interactions is formulated in Three-Dimensional approach for identical particles as function of vector Jacobi momenta, specifically the magnitudes of the momenta and the angles between them. The modified three dimensional Yakubovsky integral equations is successfully solved with the scalar two-meson exchange three-body force where the Malfliet-Tjon-type two-body force is implemented. The three-body force effects on the energy eigenvalue and the four-body wave function, as well as accuracy of our numerical calculations are presented.The four-body Yakubovsky equations in a Three-Dimensional approach with the inclusion of the three-body forces is proposed. The four-body bound state with two- and three-body interactions is formulated in Three-Dimensional approach for identical particles as function of vector Jacobi momenta, specifically the magnitudes of the momenta and the angles between them. The modified three dimensional Yakubovsky integral equations is successfully solved with the scalar two-meson exchange three-body force where the Malfliet-Tjon-type two-body force is implemented. The three-body force effects on the energy eigenvalue and the four-body wave function, as well as accuracy of our numerical calculations are presented. 
0704.02057	Structural parameters for globular clusters in M31 and generalizations  for the fundamental plane	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. Barmby, D.E. McLaughlin, W.E. Harris, G.L.H. Harris, D.A. Forbes	 Abstract: The structures of globular clusters (GCs) reflect their dynamical states and past histories. High-resolution imaging allows the exploration of morphologies of clusters in other galaxies. Surface brightness profiles from new Hubble Space Telescope observations of 34 globular clusters in M31 are presented, together with fits of several different structural models to each cluster. M31 clusters appear to be adequately fit by standard King models, and do not obviously require alternate descriptions with relatively stronger halos, such as are needed to fit many GCs in other nearby galaxies. The derived structural parameters are combined with corrected versions of those measured in an earlier survey to construct a comprehensive catalog of structural and dynamical parameters for M31 GCs with a sample size similar to that for the Milky Way. Clusters in M31, the Milky Way, Magellanic Clouds, Fornax dwarf spheroidal and NGC 5128 define a very tight fundamental plane with identical slopes. The combined evidence for these widely different galaxies strongly reinforces the view that old globular clusters have near-universal structural properties regardless of host environment. 
0704.02058	The Sensitivity of Hybrid Differential Stereoscopy for Spectral Imaging	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Craig E. DeForest, Charles C. Kankelborg	 Abstract: Stereoscopic spectral imaging is an observing technique that affords rapid acquisition of limited spectral information over an entire image plane simultaneously. Light from a telescope is dispersed into multiple spectral orders, which are imaged separately, and two or more of the dispersed images are combined using an analogy between the (x,y,\lambda) spectral data space and conventional (x,y,z) three-space. Because no photons are deliberately destroyed during image acquisition, the technique is much more photon-efficient in some observing regimes than existing techniques such as scanned-filtergraph or scanned-slit spectral imaging. Hybrid differential stereoscopy, which uses a combination of conventional cross-correlation stereoscopy and linear approximation theory to extract the central wavelength of a spectral line, has been used to produce solar Stokes-V (line-of-sight) magnetograms in the 617.34 nm Fe I line, and more sophisticated inversion techniques are currently being used to derive Doppler and line separation data from EUV images of the solar corona collected in the neighboring lines of He-II and Si-XI at 30.4 nm. In this paper we develop an analytic a priori treatment of noise in the line shift signal derived from hybrid differential stereoscopy. We use the analysis to estimate the noise level and measurement precision in a high resolution solar magnetograph based on stereoscopic spectral imaging, compare those estimates to a test observation made in 2003, and discuss implications for future instruments. 
0704.02059	Spitzer Observations of Low Luminosity Isolated and Low Surface  Brightness Galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. L. Hinz, M. J. Rieke, G. H. Rieke, C. N. A. Willmer, K. Misselt, C. W. Engelbracht, M. Blaylock (U. Arizona), T. E. Pickering (MMTO)	 Abstract: We examine the infrared properties of five low surface brightness galaxies (LSBGs) and compare them with related but higher surface brightness galaxies, using Spitzer Space Telescope images and spectra. All the LSBGs are detected in the 3.6 and 4.5um bands, representing the stellar population. All but one are detected at 5.8 and 8.0um, revealing emission from hot dust and aromatic molecules, though many are faint or point-like at these wavelengths. Detections of LSBGs at the far-infrared wavelengths, 24, 70, and 160um, are varied in morphology and brightness, with only two detections at 160um, resulting in highly varied spectral energy distributions. Consistent with previous expectations for these galaxies, we find that detectable dust components exist for only some LSBGs, with the strength of dust emission dependent on the existence of bright star forming regions. However, the far-infrared emission may be relatively weak compared with normal star-forming galaxies. 
0704.02060	Symmetry properties of the nodal superconductor PrOs4Sb12	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:T. R. Abu Alrub, S. H. Curnoe	 Abstract: We present a theoretical study of the superconducting gap function in PrOs4Sb12 using a symmetry-based approach. A three-component order parameter in the triplet channel best describes superconductivity. The gap function is non-degenerate and the lower branch has four cusp nodes at unusual points of the Fermi surface, which lead to power law behaviours in the density of states, specific heat and nuclear spin relaxation rate. 
0704.02061	Memory function formalism approach to electrical conductivity and  optical response of dilute magnetic semiconductors	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:F.V. Kyrychenko, C.A. Ullrich	 Abstract: A combination of the memory function formalism and time-dependent density-functional theory is applied to transport in dilute magnetic semiconductors. The approach considers spin and charge disorder and electron-electron interaction on an equal footing. Within the weak disorder limit and using a simple parabolic approximation for the valence band we show that Coulomb and exchange scattering contributions to the resistivity in GaMnAs are of the same order of magnitude. The positional correlations of defects result in a significant increase of Coulomb scattering, while the suppression of localized spin fluctuations in the ferromagnetic phase contributes substantially to the experimentally observed drop of resistivity below T_c. A proper treatment of dynamical screening and collective excitations is essential for an accurate description of infrared absorption. 
0704.02062	Nonholonomic Ricci Flows: III. Curve Flows and Solitonic Hierarchies	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Sergiu I. Vacaru	 Abstract: The geometric constructions are elaborated on (semi) Riemannian manifolds and vector bundles provided with nonintegrable distributions defining nonlinear connection structures induced canonically by metric tensors. Such spaces are called nonholonomic manifolds and described by two equivalent linear connections also induced in unique forms by a metric tensor (the Levi Civita and the canonical distinguished connection, d-connection). The lifts of geometric objects on tangent bundles are performed for certain classes of d-connections and frame transforms when the Riemann tensor is parametrized by constant matrix coefficients. For such configurations, the flows of non-stretching curves and corresponding bi-Hamilton and solitonic hierarchies encode information about Ricci flow evolution, Einstein spaces and exact solutions in gravity and geometric mechanics. The applied methods were elaborated formally in Finsler geometry and allows us to develop the formalism for generalized Riemann-Finsler and Lagrange spaces. Nevertheless, all geometric constructions can be equivalently re-defined for the Levi Civita connections and holonomic frames on (semi) Riemannian manifolds. 
0704.02063	High Energy Afterglow from Gamma-ray Bursts	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Yi-Zhong Fan, Tsvi Piran, Ramesh Narayan, Da-Ming Wei	 Abstract: We calculate the very high energy (sub-GeV to TeV) inverse Compton emission of GRB afterglows. We argue that this emission provides a powerful test of the currently accepted afterglow model. We focus on two processes: synchrotron self-Compton (SSC) emission within the afterglow blast wave, and external inverse Compton (EIC) emission which occurs when flare photons (produced by an internal process) pass through the blast wave. We show that if our current interpretations of the Swift XRT data are correct, there should be a canonical high energy afterglow emission light curve. Our predictions can be tested with high energy observatories such as GLAST, Whipple, H.E.S.S. and MAGIC. Under favorable conditions we expect afterglow detections in all these detectors. 
0704.02064	The Dynamics of Quintessence, The Quintessence of Dynamics	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Eric V. Linder	 Abstract: Quintessence theories for cosmic acceleration imbue dark energy with a non-trivial dynamics that offers hope in distinguishing the physical origin of the component. We review quintessence models with an emphasis on this dynamics and discuss classifications of the different physical behaviors. The pros and cons of various parameterizations are examined as well as the extension from scalar fields to other modifications of the Friedmann expansion equation. New results on the ability of cosmological data to distinguish among and between thawing and freezing fields are presented. 
0704.02065	Comment on "NMR Experiment Factors Numbers with Gauss Sums"	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:J. A. Jones	 Abstract: Mehring et al. have recently described an elegant nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) experiment implementing an algorithm to factor numbers based on the properties of Gauss sums. Similar experiments have also been described by Mahesh et al. In fact these algorithms do not factor numbers directly, but rather check whether a trial integer $\ell$ is a factor of a given integer $N$. Here I show that these NMR schemes cannot be used for factor checking without first implicitly determining whether or not $\ell$ is a factor of $N$. 
0704.02066	Lower bounds for communication capacities of two-qudit unitary  operations	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Dominic W. Berry	 Abstract: We show that entangling capacities based on the Jamiolkowski isomorphism may be used to place lower bounds on the communication capacities of arbitrary bipartite unitaries. Therefore, for these definitions, the relations which have been previously shown for two-qubit unitaries also hold for arbitrary dimensions. These results are closely related to the theory of the entanglement-assisted capacity of channels. We also present more general methods for producing ensembles for communication from initial states for entanglement creation. 
0704.02067	Complex marginal deformations of D3-brane geometries, their Penrose  limits and giant gravitons	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Spyros D. Avramis, Konstadinos Sfetsos, Dimitrios Zoakos	 Abstract: We apply the Lunin--Maldacena construction of gravity duals to beta-deformed gauge theories to a class of Type IIB backgrounds with U(1)^3 global symmetry, which include the multicenter D3-brane backgrounds dual to the Coulomb branch of N=4 super Yang-Mills and the rotating D3-brane backgrounds dual to the theory at finite temperature and chemical potential. After a general discussion, we present the full form of the deformed metrics for three special cases, which can be used for the study of various aspects of the marginally-deformed gauge theories. We also construct the Penrose limits of the solutions dual to the Coulomb branch along a certain set of geodesics and, for the resulting PP--wave metrics, we examine the effect of beta-deformations on the giant graviton states. We find that giant gravitons exist only up to a critical value of the sigma-deformation parameter, are not degenerate in energy with the point graviton, and remain perturbatively stable. Finally, we probe the sigma-deformed multicenter solutions by examining the static heavy-quark potential by means of Wilson loops. We find situations that give rise to complete screening as well as linear confinement, with the latter arising is an intriguing way reminiscent of phase transitions in statistical systems. 
0704.02068	PAH Strength and the Interstellar Radiation Field around the Massive  Young Cluster NGC3603	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:V. Lebouteiller, B. Brandl, J. Bernard-Salas, D. Devost, J. R. Houck	 Abstract: We present spatial distribution of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and ionized gas within the Galactic giant HII region NGC3603. Using the IRS instrument on board the Spitzer Space Telescope, we study in particular the PAH emission features at ~5.7, 6.2, 7.7, 8.6, and 11.3um, and the [ArII] 6.99um, [NeII] 12.81um, [ArIII] 8.99um, and [SIV] 10.51um forbidden emission lines. The observations probe both ionized regions and photodissociation regions. Silicate emission is detected close to the central cluster while silicate absorption is seen further away. We find no significant variation of the PAH ionization fraction across the whole region. The emission of very small grains lies closer to the central stellar cluster than emission of PAHs. The PAH/VSG ratio anticorrelates with the hardness of the interstellar radiation field suggesting a destruction mechanism of the molecules within the ionized gas, as shown for low-metallicity galaxies by Madden et al. (2006). 
0704.02069	q-Deformed Supersymmetry and Dynamic Magnon Representations	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:C. A. S. Young	 Abstract: It was recently noted that the dispersion relation for the magnons of planar N=4 SYM can be identified with the Casimir of a certain deformation of the Poincare algebra, in which the energy and momentum operators are supplemented by a boost generator J. By considering the relationship between J and su(2|2) x R^2, we derive a q-deformed super-Poincare symmetry algebra of the kinematics. Using this, we show that the dynamic magnon representations may be obtained by boosting from a fixed rest-frame representation. We comment on aspects of the coalgebra structure and some implications for the question of boost-covariance of the S-matrix. 
0704.02070	The Cosmological Dynamics of Interacting Holographic Dark Energy Model	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:M. R. Setare, Elias C. Vagenas	 Abstract: Motivated by the recent observations for the cosmic acceleration and the suitable evolution of the Universe provided an interaction (decay of dark energy to matter) is incorporated in a cosmological model, we study the cosmological evolution of the Interacting Holographic Dark Energy scenario. Critical points are derived and their corresponding cosmological models are presented. The dynamical character of these models is revealed. 
0704.02071	Non-commutative Field Theory with Twistor-like Coordinates	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Tomasz R. Taylor	 Abstract: We consider quantum field theory in four-dimensional Minkowski spacetime, with the position coordinates represented by twistors instead of the usual world-vectors. Upon imposing canonical commutation relations between twistors and dual twistors, quantum theory of fields described by non-holomorphic functions of twistor variables becomes manifestly non-commutative, with Lorentz symmetry broken by a time-like vector. We discuss the free field propagation and its impact on the short- and long-distance behavior of physical amplitudes in perturbation theory. In the ultraviolet limit, quantum field theories in twistor space are generically less divergent than their commutative counterparts. Furthermore, there is no infrared--ultraviolet mixing problem. 
0704.02072	Measurement of the Rate of Muon Capture in Hydrogen Gas and  Determination of the Proton's Pseudoscalar Coupling $g_P$	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:V.A. Andreev, T.I. Banks, T.A. Case, D.B. Chitwood, S.M. Clayton, K.M. Crowe, J. Deutsch, J. Egger, S.J. Freedman, V.A. Ganzha, T. Gorringe, F.E. Gray, D.W. Hertzog, M. Hildebrandt, P. Kammel, B. Kiburg, S. Knaack, P.A. Kravtsov, A.G. Krivshich, B. Lauss, K.L. Lynch, E.M. Maev, O.E. Maev, F. Mulhauser, C.S. Özben, C. Petitjean, G.E. Petrov, R. Prieels, G.N. Schapkin, G.G. Semenchuk, M.A. Soroka, V. Tishchenko, A.A. Vasilyev, A.A. Vorobyov, M.E. Vznuzdaev, P. Winter	 Abstract: The rate of nuclear muon capture by the proton has been measured using a new experimental technique based on a time projection chamber operating in ultra-clean, deuterium-depleted hydrogen gas at 1 MPa pressure. The capture rate was obtained from the difference between the measured $\mu^-$ disappearance rate in hydrogen and the world average for the $\mu^+$ decay rate. The target's low gas density of 1% compared to liquid hydrogen is key to avoiding uncertainties that arise from the formation of muonic molecules. The capture rate from the hyperfine singlet ground state of the $\mu p$ atom is measured to be $\Lambda_S=725.0 \pm 17.4 s^{-1}$, from which the induced pseudoscalar coupling of the nucleon, $g_P(q^2=-0.88 m_\mu^2)=7.3 \pm 1.1$, is extracted. This result is consistent with theoretical predictions for $g_P$ that are based on the approximate chiral symmetry of QCD. 
0704.02073	Constraints on gamma-ray burst and supernova progenitors through  circumstellar absorption lines. (II): Post-LBV Wolf-Rayet stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. J. van Marle, N. Langer, G. garcia-Segura	 Abstract: Van Marle et al. (2005) showed that circumstellar absorption lines in early Type Ib/c supernova and gamma-ray burst afterglow spectra may reveal the progenitor evolution of the exploding Wolf-Rayet star. While the quoted paper deals with Wolf-Rayet stars which evolved through a red supergiant stage, we investigate here the initially more massive Wolf-Rayet stars which are thought to evolve through a Luminous Blue Variable (LBV) stage. We perform hydrodynamic simulations of the evolution of the circumstellar medium around a 60 Msol star, from the main sequence through the LBV and Wolf-Rayet stages, up to core collapse. We then compute the column density of the circumstellar matter as a function of radial velocity, time and angle. This allows a comparison with the number and blue-shifts, of absorption components in the spectra of LBVs, Wolf-Rayet stars, Type Ib/c supernovae and gamma-ray burst afterglows. Our simulation for the post-LBV stage shows the formation of various absorption components, which are, however, rather short lived; they dissipate on time scales shorter than 50,000yr. As the LBV stage is thought to occur at the beginning of core helium burning, the remaining Wolf-Rayet life time is expected to be one order of magnitude larger. When interpreting the absorption components in the afterglow spectrum of GRB-021004 as circumstellar, it can be concluded that the progenitor of this source did most likely not evolve through an LBV stage. However, a close binary with late common-envelope phase (Case C) may produce a circumstellar medium that closely resembles the LBV to Wolf-Rayet evolution, but with a much shorter Wolf-Rayet period. 
0704.02074	Star-Formation in Low Radio Luminosity AGN from the Sloan Digital Sky  Survey	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:W. H. de Vries (1,2), J. A. Hodge (1), R. H. Becker (1,2), R. L. White (3), D. J. Helfand (4) ((1) University of California, Davis, (2) IGPP, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore,(3) Space Telescope Science Institute, Baltimore, (4) Columbia University, New York)	 Abstract: We investigate faint radio emission from low- to high-luminosity Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) selected from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS). Their radio properties are inferred by co-adding large ensembles of radio image cut-outs from the FIRST survey, as almost all of the sources are individually undetected. We correlate the median radio flux densities against a range of other sample properties, including median values for redshift, [OIII] luminosity, emission line ratios, and the strength of the 4000A break. We detect a strong trend for sources that are actively undergoing star-formation to have excess radio emission beyond the ~10^28 ergs/s/Hz level found for sources without any discernible star-formation. Furthermore, this additional radio emission correlates well with the strength of the 4000A break in the optical spectrum, and may be used to assess the age of the star-forming component. We examine two subsamples, one containing the systems with emission line ratios most like star-forming systems, and one with the sources that have characteristic AGN ratios. This division also separates the mechanism responsible for the radio emission (star-formation vs. AGN). For both cases we find a strong, almost identical, correlation between [OIII] and radio luminosity, with the AGN sample extending toward lower, and the star-formation sample toward higher luminosities. A clearer separation between the two subsamples is seen as function of the central velocity dispersion of the host galaxy. For systems with similar redshifts and velocity dispersions, the star-formation subsample is brighter than the AGN in the radio by an order of magnitude. This underlines the notion that the radio emission in star-forming systems can dominate the emission associated with the AGN. 
0704.02075	The Araucaria Project. The Distance to the Local Group Galaxy WLM from  Cepheid Variables discovered in a Wide-Field Imaging Survey	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G. Pietrzynski, W. Gieren, A. Udalski, I. Soszynski, F. Bresolin, R.P. Kudritzki, A. Garcia, D. Minniti, R. Mennickent, O. Szewczyk, M. Szymanski, M. Kubiak, L. Wyrzykowski	 Abstract: We have conducted an extensive wide-field imaging survey for Cepheid variables in the Local Group irregular galaxy WLM. From data obtained on 101 nights, we have discovered 60 Cepheids which include 14 of the 15 Cepheid variables previously detected by Sandage and Carlson. Down to a period of 3 days, our Cepheid survey in WLM should be practically complete. Importantly, we have found for the first time a long-period Cepheid (P=54.2 days) in this galaxy, alleviating the puzzle that WLM with its many blue, massive stars does not contain Cepheids with periods longer than about 10 days. Our data define tight period-luminosity relations in V, I and the reddening-free Wesenheit magnitude ${\rm W}_{\rm I}$ which are all extremely well fit by the corresponding slopes of the LMC Cepheid PL relation, suggesting no change of the PL relation slope down to a Cepheid metal abundance of about -1.0 dex, in agreement with other recent studies. We derive a true distance modulus to WLM of 25.144 $\pm$0.03 (r) $\pm$0.07 (s) mag from our data, in good agreement with the earlier 24.92 $\pm$ 0.21 mag determination of Lee, Freedman and Madore (1993a) from Cepheid variables. The quoted value of the systematic uncertainty does not include the contribution from the LMC distance which we have assumed to be 18.50 mag, as in the previous papers in our project. 
0704.02076	Universal Features of Dimensional Reduction Schemes from General  Covariance Breaking	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Paolo Maraner, Jiannis K. Pachos	 Abstract: Many features of dimensional reduction schemes are determined by the breaking of higher dimensional general covariance associated with the selection of a particular subset of coordinates. By investigating residual covariance we introduce lower dimensional tensors --generalizing to one side Kaluza-Klein gauge fields and to the other side extrinsic curvature and torsion of embedded spaces-- fully characterizing the geometry of dimensional reduction. We obtain general formulas for the reduction of the main tensors and operators of Riemannian geometry. In particular, we provide what is probably the maximal possible generalization of Gauss, Codazzi and Ricci equations and various other standard formulas in Kaluza-Klein and embedded spacetimes theories. After general covariance breaking, part of the residual covariance is perceived by effective lower dimensional observers as an infinite dimensional gauge group. This reduces to finite dimensions in Kaluza-Klein and other few remarkable backgrounds, all characterized by the vanishing of appropriate lower dimensional tensors. 
0704.02077	Thermodynamic properties of Pb determined from pressure-dependent  critical-field measurements	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:N. Suresh, J.L. Tallon	 Abstract: We have carried out extensive low-temperature (1.5 to 10 K) measurements of the critical field, $H_c$, for the element Pb up to a pressure of $P=1.2$ GPa. From this data the electronic entropy, specific heat, thermal expansion coefficient and compressibility is calculated as a function of temperature, pressure and magnetic field. The zero-field data is consistent with direct thermodynamic measurements and the $P$-dependence of $T_c$ and specific heat coefficient, $\gamma(T,P)$ allows the determination of the $P$-dependence of the pairing interaction. 
0704.02078	Quantum theory from Hamilton's Principle with imperfect information	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:John Hegseth	 Abstract: Many quantization schemes rely on analogs of classical mechanics where the connections with classical mechanics are indirect. In this work I propose a new and direct connection between classical mechanics and quantum mechanics where the quantum mechanical propagator is derived from a variational principle. This principle allows a physical system to have imperfect information, i.e., there is incomplete knowledge of the physical state, and many paths are allowed. 
0704.02079	X-ray emission from the planet pulsar B1257+12	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G. G. Pavlov, O. Kargaltsev, G. P. Garmire, A. Wolszczan	 Abstract: We report the detection of the millisecond pulsar B1257+12 with the Chandra X-ray Observatory. In a 20 ks exposure we detected 25 photons from the pulsar, with energies between 0.4 and 2.0 keV, corresponding to the flux F_X=(4.4+/- 0.9)*10^{-15} ergs s^{-1} cm^{-2} in this energy range. The X-ray spectrum can be described by a power-law model with photon index Gamma = 2.8 and luminosity L_X \approx 2.5*10^{29} ergs s^{-1} in the 0.3--8 keV band, for a plausible distance of 500 pc and hydrogen column density N_H=3*10^{20} cm^{-2}. Alternatively, the spectrum can be fitted by a blackbody model with kT ~ 0.22 keV and projected emitting area ~2000 m^2. If the thermal X-rays are emitted from two symmetric polar caps, the bolometric luminosity of the two caps is 2 L_bol ~ 3*10^{29} ergs s^{-1}. We compared our results with the data on other 30 millisecond pulsars observed in X-rays and found that the apparent X-ray efficiency of PSR B1257+12, L_X/Edot ~ 3*10^{-5} for d=500 pc, is lower than those of most of millisecond pulsars. This might be explained by an unfavorable orientation of the X-ray pulsar beam if the radiation is magnetospheric, or by strong asymmetry of polar caps if the radiation is thermal (e.g., one of the polar caps is much brighter than the other and remains invisible for most part of the pulsar period). Alternatively, it could be attributed to absorption of X-rays in circumpulsar matter, such as a flaring debris disk left over after formation of the planetary system around the pulsar. 
0704.02080	Measurement of the Absolute Branching Fraction of D0 --> K- pi+	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:The BABAR Collaboration: B. Aubert, et al	 Abstract: We measure the absolute branching fraction for D0 --> K- pi+ using partial reconstruction of B0bar --> D^{*+} X \ell^{-} \bar{\nu}_{\ell} decays, in which only the charged lepton and the pion from the decay D^{*+} --> D0 pi^+ are used. Based on a data sample of 230 million B Bbar pairs collected at the Upsilon(4S) resonance with the BABAR detector at the PEP-II asymmetric-energy B Factory at SLAC, we obtain the absolute branching fractions of D0 --> K- pi+ = (4.007 \pm 0.037 \pm 0.072)%, where the first uncertainty is statistical and the second is systematic. 
0704.02081	Three-manifolds of positive Ricci curvature and convex weakly umbilic  boundary	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Jean Cortissoz	 Abstract: In this paper we consider three-manifolds with weakly umbilic boundary (the Second Fundamental form of the boundary is a constant multiple of the metric). We show that if the initial manifold has positive Ricci curvature and the boundary is convex (nonnegative Second Fundamental form), its metric can be deformed via the Ricci flow to a metric of constant curvature and totally geodesic boundary. 
0704.02082	Direct measurement of quantum phase gradients in superfluid 4He flow	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Yuki Sato, Aditya Joshi, Richard Packard	 Abstract: We report a new kind of experiment in which we generate a known superfluid velocity in a straight tube and directly determine the phase difference across the tube's ends using a superfluid matter wave interferometer. By so doing, we quantitatively verify the relation between the superfluid velocity and the phase gradient of the condensate macroscopic wave function. Within the systematic error of the measurement (~10%) we find v_s=(hbar/m_4)*(grad phi). 
0704.02083	Introduction to Arabic Speech Recognition Using CMUSphinx System	Computation and Language (cs.CL)	Authors:H. Satori, M. Harti, N. Chenfour	 Abstract: In this paper Arabic was investigated from the speech recognition problem point of view. We propose a novel approach to build an Arabic Automated Speech Recognition System (ASR). This system is based on the open source CMU Sphinx-4, from the Carnegie Mellon University. CMU Sphinx is a large-vocabulary; speaker-independent, continuous speech recognition system based on discrete Hidden Markov Models (HMMs). We build a model using utilities from the OpenSource CMU Sphinx. We will demonstrate the possible adaptability of this system to Arabic voice recognition. 
0704.02084	Comment on ``Analysis of Floquet formulation of time-dependent  density-functional theory'' [Chem. Phys. Lett. {\bf 433} (2006), 204]	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Neepa T. Maitra, Kieron Burke	 Abstract: We discuss the relationship between modern time-dependent density functional theory and earlier time-periodic versions, and why the criticisms in a recent paper (Chem. Phys. Lett. {\bf 433} (2006) 204) of our earlier analysis (Chem. Phys. Lett. {\bf 359} (2002) 237) are incorrect. 
0704.02085	Stirring the Embers: High Sensitivity VLBI Observations of GRB030329	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Y.M. Pihlström (1), G.B. Taylor (1), J. Granot (2), S. Doeleman (3) ((1) University of New Mexico, (2) Kavli Institute of Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology, (3) MIT Haystack Observatory)	 Abstract: We present high sensitivity Very Long Baseline Interferometry (VLBI) observations 806 days after the gamma-ray burst of 2003 March 29 (GRB030329). The angular diameter of the radio afterglow is measured to be 0.347 +- 0.09 mas, corresponding to 0.99 +- 0.26 pc at the redshift of GRB030329 (z = 0.1685). The evolution of the image size favors a uniform external density over an R^-2 wind-like density profile (at distances of R >~10^18 cm from the source), although the latter cannot be ruled out yet. The current apparent expansion velocity of the image size is only mildly relativistic, suggesting a non-relativistic transition time of t_NR ~ 1 yr. A rebrightening, or at least a significant flattening in the flux decay, is expected within the next several years as the counter-jet becomes visible (this has not yet been observed). An upper limit of <1.9c is set on the proper motion of the flux centroid. 
0704.02086	Third-order cosmological perturbations of zero-pressure multi-component  fluids: Pure general relativistic nonlinear effects	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. Hwang, H. Noh	 Abstract: Present expansion stage of the universe is believed to be mainly governed by the cosmological constant, collisionless dark matter and baryonic matter. The latter two components are often modeled as zero-pressure fluids. In our previous work we have shown that to the second-order cosmological perturbations, the relativistic equations of the zero-pressure, irrotational, multi-component fluids in a spatially near flat background effectively coincide with the Newtonian equations. As the Newtonian equations only have quadratic order nonlinearity, it is practically interesting to derive the potential third-order perturbation terms in general relativistic treatment which correspond to pure general relativistic corrections. Here, we present pure general relativistic correction terms appearing in the third-order perturbations of the multi-component zero-pressure fluids. We show that, as in a single component situation, the third-order correction terms are quite small (~ 5 x10^{-5} smaller compared with the relativistic/Newtonian second-order terms) due to the weak level anisotropy of the cosmic microwave background radiation. Still, there do exist pure general relativistic correction terms in third-order perturbations which could potentially become important in future development of precision cosmology. We include the cosmological constant in all our analyses. 
0704.02087	The SLOCC invariant and the residual entanglement for n-qubits	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:D. Li, X. Li, H. Huang, X. Li	 Abstract: In this paper, we find the invariant for $n$-qubits and propose the residual entanglement for $n$-qubits by means of the invariant. Thus, we establish a relation between SLOCC entanglement and the residual entanglement. The invariant and the residual entanglement can be used for SLOCC entanglement classification for $n$-qubits. 
0704.02088	Exact longitudinal plasmon dispersion relations for one and two  dimensional Wigner crystals	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Shimul Akhanjee	 Abstract: We derive the exact longitudinal plasmon dispersion relations, $\omega(k)$ of classical one and two dimensional Wigner crystals at T=0 from the real space equations of motion, of which properly accounts for the full unscreened Coulomb interactions. We make use of the polylogarithm function in order to evaluate the infinite lattice sums of the electrostatic force constants. From our exact results we recover the correct long-wavelength behavior of previous approximate methods. In 1D, $\omega(k) \sim | k |\log ^{1/2} (1/k)$, validating the known RPA and bosonization form. In 2D $\omega(k) \sim \sqrt k$, agreeing remarkably with the celebrated Ewald summation result. Additionally, we extend this analysis to calculate the band structure of tight-binding models of non-interacting electrons with arbitrary power law hopping. 
0704.02089	On the energy equality for weak solutions of the 3D Navier-Stokes  equations	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:A. Cheskidov, S. Friedlander, R. Shvydkoy	 Abstract: We prove that the energy equality holds for weak solutions of the 3D Navier-Stokes equations in the functional class $L^3([0,T);V^{5/6})$, where $V^{5/6}$ is the domain of the fractional power of the Stokes operator $A^{5/12}$. 
0704.02090	Cocycles and Mañe sequences with an application to ideal fluids	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:R. Shvydkoy	 Abstract: Exponential dichotomy of a strongly continuous cocycle $\bFi$ is proved to be equivalent to existence of a Ma\~{n}e sequence either for $\bFi$ or for its adjoint. As a consequence we extend some of the classical results to general Banach bundles. The dynamical spectrum of a product of two cocycles, one of which is scalar, is investigated and applied to describe the essential spectrum of the Euler equation in an arbitrary spacial dimension. 
0704.02091	Discrete quantum Fourier transform in coupled semiconductor double  quantum dot molecules	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Ping Dong, Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao	 Abstract: In this Letter, we present a physical scheme for implementing the discrete quantum Fourier transform in a coupled semiconductor double quantum dot system. The main controlled-R gate operation can be decomposed into many simple and feasible unitary transformations. The current scheme would be a useful step towards the realization of complex quantum algorithms in the quantum dot system. 
0704.02092	A Note on the Inapproximability of Correlation Clustering	Learning (cs.LG)	Authors:Jinsong Tan	 Abstract: We consider inapproximability of the correlation clustering problem defined as follows: Given a graph $G = (V,E)$ where each edge is labeled either "+" (similar) or "-" (dissimilar), correlation clustering seeks to partition the vertices into clusters so that the number of pairs correctly (resp. incorrectly) classified with respect to the labels is maximized (resp. minimized). The two complementary problems are called MaxAgree and MinDisagree, respectively, and have been studied on complete graphs, where every edge is labeled, and general graphs, where some edge might not have been labeled. Natural edge-weighted versions of both problems have been studied as well. Let S-MaxAgree denote the weighted problem where all weights are taken from set S, we show that S-MaxAgree with weights bounded by $O(|V|^{1/2-\delta})$ essentially belongs to the same hardness class in the following sense: if there is a polynomial time algorithm that approximates S-MaxAgree within a factor of $\lambda = O(\log{|V|})$ with high probability, then for any choice of S', S'-MaxAgree can be approximated in polynomial time within a factor of $(\lambda + \epsilon)$, where $\epsilon > 0$ can be arbitrarily small, with high probability. A similar statement also holds for $S-MinDisagree. This result implies it is hard (assuming $NP \neq RP$) to approximate unweighted MaxAgree within a factor of $80/79-\epsilon$, improving upon a previous known factor of $116/115-\epsilon$ by Charikar et. al. \cite{Chari05}. 
0704.02093	New Parameterization in Muon Decay and the Type of Emitted Neutrino. II	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Masaru Doi, Tsuneyuki Kotani, Hiroyuki Nishiura	 Abstract: In a previous paper, new sets of parameters to replace the Michel parameters were proposed to analyze data for the muon decay $\mu^{+} \to e^{+}\nu_{e}\bar{\nu_{\mu}}$. Both $(V-A)$ and $(V+A)$ charged currents with finite neutrino mass have been used to study this decay. In the present paper, this parameterization is extended to a more general form, and a method for data analysis (least squares) is discussed for the propose of determining the rate of contribution from the $(V+A)$ current. We find that there is a simple form in which the set of parameters is related primitively to the physical quantities. It is shown that the Michel parameters are one of the other sets that are obtained from this simple form by rearranging one term. We derive the condition to obtain the same information regarding unknown physical quantities in the case that the data are analyzed using these simple and rearranged forms separately. We find that there is some possibility to get different results from these analyses, because the equivalent condition is very delicate and the QED radiative corrections should be treated carefully. We propose a consistent formula for data analysis. It is useful to compare the value obtained in the least squares fit using the simple form with that obtained using the prediction of the standard model, because a large difference is not expected, especially in the case of the Majorana neutrino. Finally, we point out that the method we proposed to determine the type of neutrino in the previous paper is incorrect. 
0704.02094	Prewavelet Solution to Poisson Equations	Numerical Analysis (math.NA)	Authors:Ming-Jun Lai, Haipeng Liu	 Abstract: Finite element method is one of powerful numerical methods to solve PDE. Usually, if a finite element solution to a Poisson equation based on a triangulation of the underlying domain is not accurate enough, one will discard the solution and then refine the triangulation uniformly and compute a new finite element solution over the refined triangulation. It is wasteful to discard the original finite element solution. We propose a prewavelet method to save the original solution by adding a prewavelet subsolution to obtain the refined level finite element solution. To increase the accuracy of numerical solution to Poisson equations, we can keep adding prewavelet subsolutions. Our prewavelets are orthogonal in the $H^1$ norm and they are compactly supported except for one globally supported basis function in a rectangular domain. We have implemented these prewavelet basis functions in MATLAB and used them for numerical solution of Poisson equation with Dirichlet boundary conditions. Numerical simulation demonstrates that our prewavelet solution is much more efficient than the standard finite element method. 
0704.02095	Effects of a pre-inflation radiation-dominated epoch to CMB anisotropy	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:I-Chin Wang, Kin-Wang Ng	 Abstract: We consider that the pre-inflation era is radiation-dominated, transiting smoothly to the inflationary era. We work out in detail the dynamics of inflaton fluctuations across the phase transition and the proper choices of initial vacuum states. It is found that this phase transition can suppress long-wavelength quantum fluctuations of inflaton. This may attribute to the large-scale CMB anisotropy a lower power than predicted in the standard $\Lambda$CDM model. In constraining this transitional effect by WMAP anisotropy data, we use the WMAP best-fit scale-invariant $\Lambda$CDM model with the density power spectrum replaced by the one found in this work. We find that the transition occurs at least about 10 e-folds before the comoving scales comparable to our present horizon size cross the Hubble radius during inflation. 
0704.02096	Multi-wavelength observations of Southern Hot Molecular Cores traced by  methanol masers - I. Ammonia and 24 GHz Continuum Data	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. N. Longmore (1 and 2), M. G. Burton (1), P. J. Barnes (3 and 1), T. Wong (1 and 2 and 5), C. R. Purcell (1 and 4), J. Ott (2 and 6) ((1) UNSW, (2) ATNF, (3) Uni. of Sydney, (4) Jodrell Bank Observatory, (5) Uni. of Illinois, (6) NRAO)	 Abstract: We present observations of the (1,1), (2,2), (4,4) and (5,5) inversion transitions of para-ammonia (NH3) and 24 GHz continuum, taken with the Australia Telescope Compact Array toward 21 southern Galactic hot molecular cores traced by 6.7 GHz methanol maser emission. We detect NH3(1,1) emission toward all 21 regions and 24 GHz continuum emission toward 12 of the regions, including 6 with no reported 8 GHz continuum counterparts. In total, we find the 21 regions contain 41 NH3(1,1) cores. We extract characteristic spectra for every core at each of the NH3 transitions and present both integrated intensity maps and channel maps for each region. The NH3(4,4)+(5,5) emission is always unresolved and found at the maser position indicating that the methanol masers are found at the warmest part of the core. We observe large asymmetries in the NH3(1,1) hyperfine line profiles and conclude this is due to a number of dense, small clumps within the beam. We derive properties of the ionised gas and find the 24 GHz continuum sources not detected at 8 GHz are always coincident with both NH3 and methanol masers in contrast to those detected at 8 + 24 GHz which are generally offset from the methanol masers. We investigate the possibility that the former may be hyper-compact HII regions. Finally, we separate the cores into five groups, based on their association with NH3, methanol maser and continuum emission. From the different physical properties of the cores in the groups, we discuss the possibility that these groups may represent cores at different evolutionary stages of the massive star formation process. 
0704.02097	Effects of Measurement back-action in the stabilization of a  Bose-Einstein condensate through feedback	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:S.D.Wilson, A.R.R.Carvalho, J.J.Hope, M.R.James	 Abstract: We apply quantum filtering and control to a particle in a harmonic trap under continuous position measurement, and show that a simple static feedback law can be used to cool the system. The final steady state is Gaussian and dependent on the feedback strength and coupling between the system and probe. In the limit of weak coupling this final state becomes the ground state. An earlier model by Haine et. al. (PRA 69, 2004) without measurement back-action showed dark states: states that did not display error signals, thus remaining unaffected by the control. This paper shows that for a realistic measurement process this is not true, which indicates that a Bose-Einstein condensate may be driven towards the ground state from any arbitrary initial state. 
0704.02098	Estimation of Bond Percolation Thresholds on the Archimedean Lattices	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Robert Parviainen	 Abstract: We give accurate estimates for the bond percolation critical probabilities on seven Archimedean lattices, for which the critical probabilities are unknown, using an algorithm of Newman and Ziff. 
0704.02099	Teleparallel Energy-Momentum Distribution of Static Axially Symmetric  Spacetimes	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:M. Sharif, M. Jamil Amir	 Abstract: This paper is devoted to discuss the energy-momentum for static axially symmetric spacetimes in the framework of teleparallel theory of gravity. For this purpose, we use the teleparallel versions of Einstein, Landau-Lifshitz, Bergmann and M$\ddot{o}$ller prescriptions. A comparison of the results shows that the energy density is different but the momentum turns out to be constant in each prescription. This is exactly similar to the results available in literature using the framework of General Relativity. It is mentioned here that M$\ddot{o}$ller energy-momentum distribution is independent of the coupling constant $\lambda$. Finally, we calculate energy-momentum distribution for the Curzon metric, a special case of the above mentioned spacetime. 
0704.02100	The host galaxy/AGN connection. Brightness profiles of early-type  galaxies hosting Seyfert nuclei	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Alessandro Capetti (1)Barbara Balmaverde (1) ((1)INAF - Osservatorio Astronomico di Torino, Italy)	 Abstract: [ABRIDGED] We recently presented evidence of a connection between the brightness profiles of nearby early-type galaxies and the properties of the AGN they host. The radio loudness of the AGN appears to be univocally related to the host's brightness profile: radio-loud nuclei are only hosted by ``core'' galaxies while radio-quiet AGN are only found in ``power-law'' galaxies. We extend our analysis here to a sample of 42 nearby (V < 7000 km/s) Seyfert galaxies hosted by early-type galaxies. We used the available HST images to study their brightness profiles. Having excluded complex and highly nucleated galaxies, in the remaining 16 objects the brightness profiles can be successfully modeled with a Nuker law with a steep nuclear cusp characteristic of ``power-law'' galaxies (with logarithmic slope 0.51 - 1.07). This result is what is expected for these radio-quiet AGN based on our previous findings, thus extending the validity of the connection between brightness profile and radio loudness to AGN of a far higher luminosity. We explored the robustness of this result against a different choice of the analytic form for the brightness profiles, using a Sersic law. In no object could we find evidence of a central light deficit with respect to a pure Sersic model, the defining feature of ``core'' galaxies in this modeling framework. We conclude that, regardless of the modeling strategy, the dichotomy of AGN radio loudness can be univocally related to the host's brightness profile. Our general results can be re-phrased as ``radio-loud nuclei are hosted by core galaxies, while radio-quiet AGN are found in non-core galaxies''. 
0704.02101	Momentum distribution and correlation of two-nucleon relative motion in  $^6$He and $^6$Li	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:W. Horiuchi, Y. Suzuki	 Abstract: The momentum distribution of relative motion between two nucleons gives information on the correlation in nuclei. The momentum distribution is calculated for both $^{6}$He and $^6$Li which are described in a three-body model of $\alpha$+$N$+$N$. The ground state solution for the three-body Hamiltonian is obtained accurately using correlated basis functions. The momentum distribution depends on the potential model for the $N$-$N$ interaction. With use of a realistic potential, the $^6$He momentum distribution exhibits a dip around 2 fm$^{-1}$ characteristic of $S$-wave motion. In contrast to this, the $^6$Li momentum distribution is very similar to that of the deuteron; no dip appears because it is filled with the $D$-wave component arising from the tensor force. 
0704.02102	A Remark on Compact Minimal Surfaces in $S^5$ with Non-Negative Gaussian  Curvature	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Rodrigo Ristow Montes	 Abstract: In this paper we classify compact minimal surfaces in $S^5$ with non-negative Gaussian curvature using the notion of a contact angle. 
0704.02103	Zig Zag symmetry in AdS/CFT duality	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:A. I. Karanikas, C. N. Ktorides	 Abstract: The validity of the Bianchi identity, which is intimately connected with the zig zag symmetry, is established, for piecewise continuous contours, in the context of Polakov's gauge field-string connection in the large 'tHooft coupling limit, according to which the chromoelectric `string' propagates in five dimensions with its ends attached on a Wilson loop in four dimensions. An explicit check in the wavy line approximation is presented. 
0704.02104	On parametrization of linear pseudo-differential boundary value control  systems	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Jouko Tervo, Markku Nihtilä, Petri Kokkonen	 Abstract: The paper considers pseudo-differential boundary value control systems. The underlying operators form an algebra D with the help of which we are able to formulate typical boundary value control problems. The symbolic calculus gives tools to form e.g. compositions, formal adjoints, generalized right or left inverses and compatibility conditions. By a parametrizability we mean that for a given control system Au=0 one finds an operator S such that Au=0 if and only if u=Sf. The computation rules of D (or its appropriate subalgebra D') guarantee that in many applications S can be refinely analyzed or even explicitly calculated. We outline some methods of homological algebra for the study of parametrization S. Especially the projectivity of a certain factor module (defined by the system equations) implies the parametrizability. We give some examples to illustrate our computational methods. 
0704.02105	Entanglement and interference between different degrees of freedom of  photons states	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:F. W. Sun, B. H. Liu, Y. F. Huang, Y. S. Zhang, Z. Y. Ou, G. C. Guo	 Abstract: In this paper, photonic entanglement and interference are described and analyzed with the language of quantum information process. Correspondingly, a photon state involving several degrees of freedom is represented in a new expression based on the permutation symmetry of bosons. In this expression, each degree of freedom of a single photon is regarded as a qubit and operations on photons as qubit gates. The two-photon Hong-Ou-Mandel interference is well interpreted with it. Moreover, the analysis reveals the entanglement between different degrees of freedom in a four-photon state from parametric down conversion, even if there is no entanglement between them in the two-photon state. The entanglement will decrease the state purity and photon interference visibility in the experiments on a four-photon polarization state. 
0704.02106	Associated Graded Algebras and Coalgebras	Category Theory (math.CT)	Authors:A. Ardizzoni, C. Menini	 Abstract: We investigate the notion of associated graded coalgebra (algebra) of a bialgebra with respect to a subbialgebra (quotient bialgebra) and characterize those which are bialgebras of type one in the framework of abelian braided monoidal categories. 
0704.02107	Poincare Duality Pairs in Dimension Three	Algebraic Topology (math.AT)	Authors:Beatrice Bleile	 Abstract: We extend Hendriks' classification theorem and Turaev's realisation and splitting theorems for Poincare duality complexes in dimension three to the relative case of Poincare duality pairs. The results for Poincare duality complexes are recovered by restricting the results to the case of Poincare duality pairs with empty boundary. Up to oriented homotopy equivalence, three-dimensional Poincare duality pairs are classified by their fundamental triple consisting of the fundamental group system, the orientation character and the image of the fundamental class under the classifying map. Using the derived module category we provide necessary and sufficient conditions for a given triple to be realised by a three-dimensional Poincare duality pair. The results on classification and realisation yield splitting or decomposition theorems for three-dimensional Poincare duality pairs, that is, conditions under which a given three-dimensional Poincare duality pair decomposes as interior or boundary connected sum of two three-dimensional Poincare duality pairs. 
0704.02108	A Near-Infrared Study of the Highly-Obscured Active Star-Forming Region  W51B	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Hyosun Kim, Yasushi Nakajima, Hwankyung Sung, Dae-Sik Moon, Bon-Chul Koo	 Abstract: We present wide-field JHKs-band photometric observations of the three compact HII regions G48.9-0.3, G49.0-0.3, and G49.2-0.3 in the active star-forming region W51B. The star clusters inside the three compact HII regions show the excess number of stars in the J-Ks histograms compared with reference fields. While the mean color excess ratio E(J-H)/E(H-Ks) of the three compact HII regions are similar to ~ 2.07, the visual extinctions toward them are somewhat different: ~ 17 mag for G48.9-0.3 and G49.0-0.3; ~ 23 mag for G49.2-0.3. Based on their sizes and brightnesses, we suggest that the age of each compact HII region is =< 2 Myr. The inferred total stellar mass, ~ 1.4 x 10^4 M_sun, of W51B makes it one of the most active star forming regions in the Galaxy with the star formation efficiency of ~ 10 %. 
0704.02109	ABCD and ODEs	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Patrick Dorey, Clare Dunning, Davide Masoero, Junji Suzuki, Roberto Tateo	 Abstract: We outline a relationship between conformal field theories and spectral problems of ordinary differential equations, and discuss its generalisation to models related to classical Lie algebras. 
0704.02110	Stability of the superconducting state in YBa_2Cu_3O_7	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Ekkehard Krüger	 Abstract: The nonadiabatic Heisenberg model (NHM) proposed as an extension of the Heisenberg model makes a contribution to the eigenstate problem of superconductivity. The Hamiltonian H^n derived within this group-theoretical model has superconducting eigenstates if and only if the considered material possesses a narrow, roughly half-filled "superconducting" energy band of special symmetry in its band structure. This paper shows that the high-temperature superconductor YBa_2Cu_3O_7 possesses such a superconducting band. This new result together with previous observations about other superconductors and non-superconductors corroborates the theoretical evidence within the NHM that stable superconducting states are connected with superconducting bands. It is proposed that the type of superconductivity, i.e., whether the material is a conventional low-T_c or a high-T_c superconductor, is determined by the energetically lowest boson excitations that carry the crystal spin 1*hbar and are sufficiently stable to transport this crystal spin-angular momentum through the crystal. This mechanism provides the electron-phonon mechanism that enters the BCS theory in conventional superconductors. 
0704.02111	Index Theorems on Torsional Geometries	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Tetsuji Kimura	 Abstract: We study various topological invariants on a torsional geometry in the presence of a totally anti-symmetric torsion H under the closed condition dH = 0, which appears in string theory compactification scenarios. By using the identification between the Clifford algebra on the geometry and the canonical quantization condition of fermions in quantum mechanics, we construct N=1 quantum mechanical sigma model in the Hamiltonian formalism. We extend this model to N=2 system, equipped with the totally anti-symmetric tensor associated with the torsion on the target space geometry. Next we construct transition elements in the Lagrangian path integral formalism and apply them to the analyses of the Witten indices in supersymmetric systems. We explicitly show the formulation of the Dirac index on the torsional manifold which has already been studied. We also formulate the Euler characteristic and the Hirzebruch signature on the torsional manifold. 
0704.02112	Universal temperature scaling of flux line pinning in high-temperature  superconducting thin films	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:J Albrecht, M Djupmyr, S Bruck	 Abstract: Dissipation-free current transport in high-temperature superconductors is one of the most crucial properties of this class of materials which is directly related to the effective inhibition of flux line movement by defect structures. In this respect epitaxially grown thin films of YBa2Cu3O7-d (YBCO) are proving to be the strongest candidates for many widescale applications that are close to realization. We show that the relation between different defect structures and flux line pinning in these films exhibits universal features which are clearly displayed in a detailed analysis of the temperature-dependent behaviour of local critical currents. This allows us to identify different pinning mechanisms at different temperatures to be responsible for the found critical currents. Additionally, the presence of grain boundaries with very low misorientation angles affects the temperature stability of the critical currents which has important consequences for future applications. 
0704.02113	The Jumping Phenomenon of the Dimensions of Cohomology Groups of Tangent  Sheaf	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Xuanming Ye	 Abstract: Let $X$ be a compact complex manifold, consider a small deformation $\phi: \mathcal{X} \to B$ of $X$, the dimensions of the cohomology groups of tangent sheaf $H^q(X_t,\mathcal{T}_{X_t})$ may vary under this deformation. This paper will study such phenomenons by studying the obstructions to deform a class in $H^q(X,\mathcal{T}_X)$ with the parameter $t$ and get the formula for the obstructions. 
0704.02114	Universal spectrum for DNA base CG frequency distribution in Takifugu  rubripes (Puffer fish) genome	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:A. M. Selvam	 Abstract: The frequency distribution of DNA bases A, C, G, T exhibit fractal fluctuations ubiquitous to dynamical systems in nature. The power spectra of fractal fluctuations exhibit inverse power law form signifying long-range correlations between local (small-scale) and global (large-scale) perturbations. The author has developed a general systems theory based on classical statistical physics for fractal fluctuations which predicts that the probability distribution of eddy amplitudes and the variance (square of eddy amplitude)spectrum of fractal fluctuations follow the universal Boltzmann inverse power law expressed as a function of the golden mean. The model predicted distribution is very close to statistical normal distribution for fluctuations within two standard deviations from the mean and exhibits a fat long tail. In this paper it is shown that DNA base CG frequency distribution in Takifugu rubripes (Puffer fish) Genome Release 4 exhibit universal inverse power law form consistent with model prediction. The observed long-range correlations in the DNA bases implies that the non-coding 'junk' or 'selfish' DNA which appear to be redundant, may also contribute to the efficient functioning of the protein coding DNA, a result supported by recent studies. 
0704.02115	Uncovering the Internal Structure of the Indian Financial Market:  Cross-correlation behavior in the NSE	Statistical Finance (q-fin.ST)	Authors:Sitabhra Sinha, Raj Kumar Pan	 Abstract: The cross-correlations between price fluctuations of 201 frequently traded stocks in the National Stock Exchange (NSE) of India are analyzed in this paper. We use daily closing prices for the period 1996-2006, which coincides with the period of rapid transformation of the market following liberalization. The eigenvalue distribution of the cross-correlation matrix, $\mathbf{C}$, of NSE is found to be similar to that of developed markets, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE): the majority of eigenvalues fall within the bounds expected for a random matrix constructed from mutually uncorrelated time series. Of the few largest eigenvalues that deviate from the bulk, the largest is identified with market-wide movements. The intermediate eigenvalues that occur between the largest and the bulk have been associated in NYSE with specific business sectors with strong intra-group interactions. However, in the Indian market, these deviating eigenvalues are comparatively very few and lie much closer to the bulk. We propose that this is because of the relative lack of distinct sector identity in the market, with the movement of stocks dominantly influenced by the overall market trend. This is shown by explicit construction of the interaction network in the market, first by generating the minimum spanning tree from the unfiltered correlation matrix, and later, using an improved method of generating the graph after filtering out the market mode and random effects from the data. Both methods show, compared to developed markets, the relative absence of clusters of co-moving stocks that belong to the same business sector. This is consistent with the general belief that emerging markets tend to be more correlated than developed markets. 
0704.02116	Ferromagnetic quantum critical point in URhGe doped with Ru	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:N.T. Huy, A. Gasparini, J.C.P. Klaasse, A. de Visser, S. Sakarya, N.H. van Dijk	 Abstract: We have investigated the thermal, transport and magnetic properties of URh$_{1-x}$Ru$_x$Ge alloys near the critical concentration $x_{cr} = 0.38$ for the suppression of ferromagnetic order. The Curie temperature vanishes linearly with $x$ and the ordered moment $m_0$ is suppressed in a continuous way. At $x_{cr}$ the specific heat varies as $c \sim TlnT$, the $\gamma$-value $c/T|_{0.5K}$ is maximum and the temperature exponent of the resistivity $\rho \sim T^n$ attains a minimum value $n=1.2$. These observations provide evidence for a ferromagnetic quantum phase transition. Interestingly, the coefficient of thermal expansion and the Gr\"uneisen parameter $\Gamma$ remain finite at $x_{cr}$ (down to $T = 1$ K), which is at odds with recent scaling results for a metallic quantum critical point. 
0704.02117	Quasienergy anholonomy and its application to adiabatic quantum state  manipulation	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Atushi Tanaka, Manabu Miyamoto	 Abstract: The parametric dependence of a quantum map under the influence of a rank-1 perturbation is investigated. While the Floquet operator of the map and its spectrum have a common period with respect to the perturbation strength $\lambda$, we show an example in which none of the quasienergies nor the eigenvectors obey the same period: After a periodic increment of $\lambda$, the quasienergy arrives at the nearest higher one, instead of the initial one, exhibiting an anholonomy, which governs another anholonomy of the eigenvectors. An application to quantum state manipulations is outlined. 
0704.02118	Effect of non-linear interface kinetics on coarsening phenomena	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:M. Upmanyu, P. A. Martin, A. D. Rollett	 Abstract: Coarsening kinetics is usually described using a linear gradient approximation for the underlying interface migration (IM) rates, wherein the migration fluxes at the interfaces vary linearly with the driving force. Recent experimental studies have shown that coarsening of nanocrystalline interface microstructures is unexpectedly stable compared to conventional parabolic coarsening kinetics. Here, we show that during early stage coarsening of these microstructures, IM rates can develop a non-linear dependence on the driving force, the mean interface curvature. We derive the modified mean field law for coarsening kinetics. Molecular dynamics simulations of individual grain boundaries reveal a sub-linear curvature dependence of IM rates, suggesting an intrinsic origin for the slow coarsening kinetics observed in polycrystalline metals. 
0704.02119	Conformal Structures in Noncommutative Geometry	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Christian Baer	 Abstract: It is well-known that a compact Riemannian spin manifold can be reconstructed from its canonical spectral triple which consists of the algebra of smooth functions, the Hilbert space of square integrable spinors and the Dirac operator. It seems to be a folklore fact that the metric can be reconstructed up to conformal equivalence if one replaces the Dirac operator D by sign(D). We give a precise formulation and proof of this fact. 
0704.02120	Near-IR Spectra of Red Supergiants and Giants. I- Models with Solar and  with Mixing-Induced Surface Abundance Ratios	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Lançon, P.H. Hauschildt, D. Ladjal, M. Mouhcine	 Abstract: We provide a grid of PHOENIX spectra of red giant and supergiant stars, that extend through optical and near-IR wavelengths. For the first time, models are also provided with modified surface abundances of C, N and O, as a step towards accounting for the changes known to occur due to convective dredge-up (and to be enhanced in the case of rotation). The aims are (i) to assess how well current models reproduce observed spectra, (ii) to quantify the effects of the abundance changes on the spectra, and (iii) to determine how these changes affect estimates of fundamental stellar parameters. Observed giant star spectra can be fitted very well at solar metallicity down to about 3400K. Modified surface abundances are preferred in only a minority of cases for luminosity class II, possibly indicating mixing in excess of standard first dredge-up. Supergiant stars show a larger variety of near-IR spectra, and good fits are currently obtained for about one third of the observations only. Modified surface abundances help reproducing strong CN bands, but do not suffice to resolve all the difficulties. The effect of the abundance changes on the estimated Teff depends on the wavelength range of observation and can amount several 100K. Reasons for the remaining discrepancies are discussed. 
0704.02121	Justification of the coupled-mode approximation for a nonlinear elliptic  problem with a periodic potential	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Dmitry Pelinovsky, Guido Schneider	 Abstract: Coupled-mode systems are used in physical literature to simplify the nonlinear Maxwell and Gross-Pitaevskii equations with a small periodic potential and to approximate localized solutions called gap solitons by analytical expressions involving hyperbolic functions. We justify the use of the one-dimensional stationary coupled-mode system for a relevant elliptic problem by employing the method of Lyapunov--Schmidt reductions in Fourier space. In particular, existence of periodic/anti-periodic and decaying solutions is proved and the error terms are controlled in suitable norms. The use of multi-dimensional stationary coupled-mode systems is justified for analysis of bifurcations of periodic/anti-periodic solutions in a small multi-dimensional periodic potential. 
0704.02122	Nonadditive quantum error-correcting code	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Sixia Yu, Qing Chen, C. H. Lai, C. H. Oh	 Abstract: We report the first nonadditive quantum error-correcting code, namely, a $((9,12,3))$ code which is a 12-dimensional subspace within a 9-qubit Hilbert space, that outperforms the optimal stabilizer code of the same length by encoding more levels while correcting arbitrary single-qubit errors. 
0704.02123	Moving gap solitons in periodic potentials	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Dmitry Pelinovsky, Guido Schneider	 Abstract: We address existence of moving gap solitons (traveling localized solutions) in the Gross-Pitaevskii equation with a small periodic potential. Moving gap solitons are approximated by the explicit localized solutions of the coupled-mode system. We show however that exponentially decaying traveling solutions of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation do not generally exist in the presence of a periodic potential due to bounded oscillatory tails ahead and behind the moving solitary waves. The oscillatory tails are not accounted in the coupled-mode formalism and are estimated by using techniques of spatial dynamics and local center-stable manifold reductions. Existence of bounded traveling solutions of the Gross--Pitaevskii equation with a single bump surrounded by oscillatory tails on a finite large interval of the spatial scale is proven by using these technique. We also show generality of oscillatory tails in other nonlinear equations with a periodic potential. 
0704.02124	The BFKL Pomeron Calculus in the dipole approach	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:M. Kozlov, E. Levin, A. Prygarin	 Abstract: In this paper we continue to pursue a goal of finding an effective theory for high energy interaction in QCD based on the colour dipole approach, for which the BFKL Pomeron Calculus gives a low energy limit. The key problem, that we try to solve in this paper is the probabilistic interpretation of the BFKL Pomeron Calculus in terms of the colourless dipoles and their interactions. We demonstrate that the BFKL Pomeron Calculus has two equivalent descriptions : (i) one is the generating functional which gives a clear probabilistic interpretation of the processes of high energy scattering and also provides a Hamiltonian-like description of the system of interacting dipoles; (ii) the second is the Langevin equation with a specific noise term which is rather complicated. We found that at high energies this Langevin equation can be reduced to the Langevin equation for directed percolation in the momentum space if the impact parameter is large, namely, $b>> 1/k$, where $k$ is the transverse momentum of a dipole. Unfortunately, this simplified form of Langevin equation is not applicable for summation of Pomeron loops, where one integrates over all possible values of impact parameter. We show that the BFKL Pomeron calculus with two vertices (splitting $P\to P+P$ and merging $P+P\to P$ of Pomerons) can be interpreted as a system of colourless dipoles with two processes: the decay of one dipole into two and the merging of two dipoles into one dipole. However, a number of assumptions we have to make on the way to simplify the noise term in the Langevin equation and/or to apply the probabilistic interpretation, therefore, we can consider both of these approaches in the present form only as the QCD motivated models. 
0704.02125	Calculation of critical exponents by self-similar factor approximants	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:V.I. Yukalov, E.P. Yukalova	 Abstract: The method of self-similar factor approximants is applied to calculating the critical exponents of the O(N)-symmetric phi^4 theory and of the Ising glass. It is demonstrated that this method, being much simpler than other known techniques of series summation in calculating the critical exponents, at the same time, yields the results that are in very good agreement with those of other rather complicated numerical methods. The principal advantage of the method of self-similar factor approximants is the combination of its extraordinary simplicity and high accuracy. 
0704.02126	Strange stars and the cosmological constant problem	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Cosimo Bambi	 Abstract: The cosmological constant problem represents an evident tension between our present description of gravity and particle physics. Many solutions have been proposed, but experimental tests are always difficult or impossible to perform and present phenomenological investigations focus only on possible relations with the dark energy, that is with the accelerating expansion rate of the contemporary universe. Here I suggest that strange stars, if they exist, could represent an interesting laboratory to investigate this puzzle, since their equilibrium configuration is partially determined by the QCD vacuum energy density. 
0704.02127	Geometric Invariant Theory and Generalized Eigenvalue Problem	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Nicolas Ressayre (I3M)	 Abstract: Let $H$ be a connected reductive subgroup of a complex connected reductive group $G$. Fix maximal tori and Borel subgroups of $H$ and $G$. Consider the pairs $(V,V')$ of irreducible representations of $H$ and $G$ such that $V$ is a submodule of $V'$. We are interested in the cone $LR(G,H)$ generated by the pairs of dominant weights of such a pair of representations. Our main result gives a minimal set of inequalities describing $LR(G,H)$ as a part of the dominant chamber. In way, we obtain results about the faces of the Dolgachev-Hu's $G$-ample cone and variations of this cone. 
0704.02128	Graphene bilayer with a twist: electronic structure	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:J. M. B. Lopes dos Santos, N. M. R. Peres, A. H. Castro Neto	 Abstract: Electronic properties of bilayer and multilayer graphene have generally been interpreted in terms of AB or Bernal stacking. However, it is known that many types of stacking defects can occur in natural and synthetic graphite; rotation of the top layer is often seen in scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) studies of graphite. In this paper we consider a graphene bilayer with a relative small angle rotation between the layers and calculate the electronic structure near zero energy in a continuum approximation. Contrary to what happens in a AB stacked bilayer and in accord with observations in epitaxial graphene we find: (a) the low energy dispersion is linear, as in a single layer, but the Fermi velocity can be significantly smaller than the single layer value; (b) an external electric field, perpendicular to the layers, does not open an electronic gap 
0704.02129	Velocity selection problem in the presence of the triple junction	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:E. A. Brener, C. Hüter, D. Pilipenko, D. E. Temkin	 Abstract: Melting of a bicrystal along the grain boundary is discussed. A triple junction plays a crucial role in the velocity selection problem in this case. In some range of the parameters an entirely analytical solution of this problem is given. This allows to present a transparent picture of the structure of the selection theory. We also discuss the selection problem in the case of the growth of a ``eutectoid dendrite'' where a triple junction is present because three phases are involved in the eutectoid reaction. 
0704.02130	Vortices in Quantum Röntgen Effect	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Yi-Shi Duan, Ru-Nan Huang	 Abstract: By the application of $\phi$-mapping topological theory, the properties of vortices in quantum R\"ontgen effect is thoroughly studied. The explicit expression of the vorticity is obtained, wherein which the $\delta$ function indicates that the vortices can only stem from the zero points of $\phi$ and the magnetic flux of the consequent monopoles is quantized in terms of the Hopf indices and Brouwer degrees. The evolution of vortex lines is discussed. The reduced dynamic equation and a conserved dynamic quantity on stable vortex lines are obtained. 
0704.02131	Radio Lobes of Pictor A: an X-ray spatially resolved Study	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G.Migliori, P.Grandi, G.G.C.Palumbo, G.Brunetti, C.Stanghellini	 Abstract: A new XMM observation has made possible a detailed study of both lobes of the radio galaxy Pictor A. Their X-ray emission is of non thermal origin and due to Inverse Compton scattering of the microwave background photons by relativistic electrons in the lobes, as previously found. In both lobes, the equipartition magnetic field (Beq) is bigger than the Inverse Compton value (Bic), calculated from the radio and X-ray flux ratio. The Beq/Bic ratio never gets below 2, in spite of the large number of reasonable assumptions tested to calculate Beq, suggesting a lobe energetic dominated by particles. The X-ray data quality is good enough to allow a spatially resolved analysis. Our study shows that Bic varies through the lobes. It appears to increase behind the hot spots. On the contrary, a rather uniform distribution of the particles is observed. As a consequence, the radio flux density variation along the lobes appears to be mainly driven by magnetic field changes. 
0704.02132	A quantitative study on the growth variability of tumour cell clones in  vitro	Cell Behavior (q-bio.CB)	Authors:C. Tomelleri, E. Milotti, C. Dalla Pellegrina, O. Perbellini, A. Del Fabbro, M. T. Scupoli, R. Chignola	 Abstract: Objectives: In this study, we quantify the growth variability of tumour cell clones from a human leukemia cell line. Materials and methods: We have used microplate spectrophotometry to measure the growth kinetics of hundreds of individual cell clones from the Molt3 cell line. The growth rate of each clonal population has been estimated by fitting experimental data with the logistic equation. Results: The growth rates were observed to vary among different clones. Up to six clones with a growth rate above or below the mean growth rate of the parent population were further cloned and the growth rates of their offsprings were measured. The distribution of the growth rates of the subclones did not significantly differ from that of the parent population thus suggesting that growth variability has an epigenetic origin. To explain the observed distributions of clonal growth rates we have developed a probabilistic model assuming that the fluctuations in the number of mitochondria through successive cell cycles are the leading cause of growth variability. For fitting purposes, we have estimated experimentally by flow cytometry the maximum average number of mitochondria in Molt3 cells. The model fits nicely the observed distributions of growth rates, however, cells in which the mitochondria were rendered non functional (rho-0 cells) showed only a 30% reduction in the clonal growth variability with respect to normal cells. Conclusions: A tumor cell population is a dynamic ensemble of clones with highly variable growth rate. At least part of this variability is due to fluctuations in the number of mitochondria. 
0704.02133	Adiabatic Pair Creation	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Peter Pickl, Detlef Duerr	 Abstract: We give here the proof that pair creation in a time dependent potentials is possible. It happens with probability one if the potential changes adiabatically in time and becomes overcritical, that is when an eigenvalue enters the upper spectral continuum. The potential may be assumed to be zero at large negative and positive times. The rigorous treatment of this effect has been lacking since the pioneering work of Beck, Steinwedel and Suessmann in 1963 and Gershtein and Zeldovich in 1970. 
0704.02134	XMMU J174716.1-281048: a "quasi-persistent" very faint X-ray transient?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Del Santo, L. Sidoli, S. Mereghetti, A. Bazzano, A. Tarana, P. Ubertini	 Abstract: The X-ray transient XMMU J174716.1-281048 was serendipitously discovered with XMM-Newton in 2003. It lies about 0.9 degrees off the Galactic Centre and its spectrum shows a high absorption (~8 x 10E22 cm^(-2)). Previous X-ray observations of the source field performed in 2000 and 2001 did not detect the source, indicative of a quiescent emission at least two orders of magnitude fainter. The low luminosity during the outburst (~5 x 10E34 erg/s at 8 kpc) indicates that the source is a member of the ``very faint X-ray transients'' class. On 2005 March 22nd the INTEGRAL satellite caught a possible type-I X-ray burst from the new INTEGRAL source IGR J17464-2811, classified as fast X-ray transient. This source was soon found to be positionally coincident, within the uncertainties, with XMMU J174716.1-281048. Here we report data analysis of the X-ray burst observed with the IBIS and JEM-X telescopes and confirm the type-I burst nature. We also re-analysed XMM-Newton and Chandra archival observations of the source field. We discuss the implications of these new findings, particularly related to the source distance as well as the source classification. 
0704.02135	Relativistic interaction of a high intensity photon beam with a plasma:  a possible GRB emission mechanism	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G. Barbiellini (1,2), A. Galli (2,3), L. Amati (4), A. Celotti (5), R. Landi (4), F. Longo (1,2), N. Omodei (6), M. Tavani (3) ((1)University of Trieste, (2)INFN of Trieste, (3)IASF of Rome/INAF, (4)IASF of Bologna/INAF, (5)SISSA, (6)INFN of Pisa)	 Abstract: A long duration photon beam can induce macroscopic coherent effects on a plasma by single photon electron scattering if the probability of the interaction approaches 1 in a volume of unit surface and length equal to the plasma typical wavelength, and the induced electron oscillations become relativistic in few plasma cycles. A fraction of the plasma electrons is accelerated through the Wakefield mechanism by the cavities created by the photon-electron interactions and radiates through boosted betraton emission in the same cavities. The resulting emission in this framework is very similar to the typical GRB radiation. Several comparisons with GRB light curves and spectral-energy correlations will be presented. 
0704.02136	The colour selection of distant galaxies in the UKIDSS Ultra-Deep Survey  Early Data Release	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K. P. Lane, O. Almaini, S. Foucaud, C. Simpson, Ian Smail, R. J. McLure, C. J. Conselice, M. Cirasuolo, M. J. Page, J. S. Dunlop, P. Hirst, M. G. Watson, K. Sekiguchi	 Abstract: We investigate colour selection techniques for high redshift galaxies in the UKIDSS Ultra Deep Survey Early Data Release (UDS EDR). Combined with very deep Subaru optical photometry, the depth (K_AB = 22.5) and area (0.62 deg^2) of the UDS EDR allows us to investigate optical/near-IR selection using a large sample of over 30,000 objects. By using the B-z, z-K colour-colour diagram (the BzK technique) we identify over 7500 candidate galaxies at z > 1.4, which can be further separated into passive and starforming systems (pBzK and sBzK respectively). Our unique sample allows us to identify a new feature not previously seen in BzK diagrams, consistent with the passively evolving track of early type galaxies at z < 1.4. We also compare the BzK technique with the R-K colour selection of Extremely Red Objects (EROs) and the J-K selection of Distant Red Galaxies (DRGs), and quantify the overlap between these populations. We find that the majority of DRGs, at these relatively bright magnitudes are also EROs. Since previous studies have found that DRGs at these magnitudes have redshifts of z ~ 1 we determine that these DRG/ERO galaxies have SEDs consistent with being dusty star-forming galaxies or AGN at z < 2. Finally we observe a flattening in the number counts of pBzK galaxies, similar to other studies, which may indicate that we are sampling the luminosity function of passive z > 1 galaxies over a narrow redshift range. 
0704.02137	L-theory of groups with unstable derived series	K-Theory and Homology (math.KT)	Authors:S.K. Roushon	 Abstract: In this short note we prove that the Farrell-Jones Fibered Isomorphism Conjecture in L-theory, after inverting 2, is true for a group whose some derived subgroup is free. 
0704.02138	Semi-classical buckling of stiff polymers	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Marc Emanuel, Hervé Mohrbach, Mehmet Sayar, Helmut Schiessel, Igor M. Kulić	 Abstract: A quantitative theory of the buckling of a worm like chain based on a semi-classical approximation of the partition function is presented. The contribution of thermal fluctuations to the force-extension relation that allows to go beyond the classical Euler buckling is derived in the linear and non-linear regime as well. It is shown that the thermal fluctuations in the nonlinear buckling regime increase the end-to-end distance of the semiflexible rod if it is confined to 2 dimensions as opposed to the 3 dimensional case. Our approach allows a complete physical understanding of buckling in D=2 and in D=3 below and above the Euler transition. 
0704.02139	Why only few are so successful ?	Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)	Authors:P. K. Mohanty	 Abstract: In many professons employees are rewarded according to their relative performance. Corresponding economy can be modeled by taking $N$ independent agents who gain from the market with a rate which depends on their current gain. We argue that this simple realistic rate generates a scale free distribution even though intrinsic ability of agents are marginally different from each other. As an evidence we provide distribution of scores for two different systems (a) the global stock game where players invest in real stock market and (b) the international cricket. 
0704.02140	The Millennium Galaxy Catalogue: the B-band attenuation of bulge and  disc light and the implied cosmic dust and stellar mass densities	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Simon P. Driver, Cristina C. Popescu, Richard J. Tuffs, Jochen Liske, Alister W. Graham, Paul D. Allen, Roberto De Propris	 Abstract: Based on our sample of 10095 galaxies with bulge-disc decompositions we derive the empirical B-band internal attenuation--inclination relation for galaxy discs and their associated central bulges. Our results agree well with the independently derived dust models of Tuffs et al., leading to a direct constraint on the mean opacity of spiral discs of Tau_B^f = 3.8 +/- 0.7 (central face-on B-band opacity). Depending on inclination, the B-band attenuation correction varies from 0.2 -- 1.1 mag for discs and from 0.8 -- 2.6 mag for bulges. We find that, overall, 37 per cent of all B-band photons produced in discs in the nearby universe are absorbed by dust, a figure that rises to 71 per cent for bulge photons. The severity of internal dust extinction is such that one must incorporate internal dust corrections in all optical studies of large galaxy samples. This is particularly pertinent for optical HST comparative evolutionary studies as the dust properties will also be evolving. We use the new results to revise our recent estimates of the spheroid and disc luminosity functions. From our best fitting dust models we derive a redshift zero cosmic dust density of rho_{dust} ~ (5.3 +/- 1.7) x 10^5, h M_{odot} Mpc^-3. This implies that (0.0083 +/- 0.0027), h per cent of the baryons in the Universe are in the form of dust and (11.9 +/- 1.7), h per cent (Salpeter-`lite' IMF) are in the form of stars (~58 per cent reside in galaxy discs, ~10 per cent in red elliptical galaxies, ~29 per cent in classical galaxy bulges and the remainder in low luminosity blue spheroid systems/components). [Abridged] 
0704.02141	Differentially rotating force-free magnetosphere of an aligned rotator:  analytical solutions in split-monopole approximation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Andrey Timokhin	 Abstract: In this paper we consider stationary force-free magnetosphere of an aligned rotator when plasma in the open field line region rotates differentially due to presence of a zone with the accelerating electric field in the polar cap of pulsar. We study the impact of differential rotation on the current density distribution in the magnetosphere. Using split-monopole approximation we obtain analytical expressions for physical parameters of differentially rotating magnetosphere. We find the range of admitted current density distributions under the requirement that the potential drop in the polar cap is less than the vacuum potential drop. We show that the current density distribution could deviate significantly from the ``classical'' Michel distribution and could be made almost constant over the polar cap even when the potential drop in the accelerating zone is of the order of 10 per cents of the vacuum potential drop. We argue that differential rotation of the open magnetic field lines could play an important role in adjusting between the magnetosphere and the polar cap cascade zone and could affect the value of pulsar breaking index. 
0704.02142	Critical Behavior of Sandpile Models with Sticky Grains	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:P. K. Mohanty, Deepak Dhar	 Abstract: We revisit the question whether the critical behavior of sandpile models with sticky grains is in the directed percolation universality class. Our earlier theoretical arguments in favor, supported by evidence from numerical simulations [ Phys. Rev. Lett., {\bf 89} (2002) 104303], have been disputed by Bonachela et al. [Phys. Rev. E {\bf 74} (2004) 050102] for sandpiles with no preferred direction. We discuss possible reasons for the discrepancy. Our new results of longer simulations of the one-dimensional undirected model fully support our earlier conclusions. 
0704.02143	Absorption features of high redshift galactic winds	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A.P.M. Fangano, A. Ferrara, P. Richter	 Abstract: The environment of high-redshift galaxies is characterized by both wind-driven outflowing gas and gravitationally infalling streams. To investigate such galaxy-IGM interplay we have generated synthetic optical absorption line spectra piercing the volume surrounding a starbursting analog of a Lyman Break Galaxy selected in a $z \approx 3$ output from a SPH simulation, including a detailed treatment of mechanical feedback from winds. Distributions for several observable species (HI, CIII, CIV, SiII, SiIII, SiIV, OVI, OVII, and OVIII) have been derived by post-processing the simulation outputs. The hot wind material is characterized by the presence of high-ionization species such as OVI, OVII, and OVIII (the latter two observable only in X-ray bands); the colder ($T<10^{5.5}$ K) infalling streams can be instead identified by the combined presence of SiII, SiIII, and CIII optical absorption together with OVI that surrounds the cooler gas clumps. However, both line profile and Pixel Optical Depth analysis of the synthetic spectra show that the intergalactic filament in which the wind-blowing galaxy is embedded produces absorption signatures that closely mimic those of the wind environment. We conclude that may be difficult to clearly identify wind-blowing galaxies and their complex gaseous environment at high redshift in optical QSO absorption-line spectra based solely on the observed ion absorption patterns. 
0704.02144	An algebraic proof of Gabrielov's theorem about analytic homomorphisms  in any characteristic	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:Guillaume Rond	 Abstract: The proof of proposition 3.6 is not correct 
0704.02145	Planets around active stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. Setiawan (1), P. Weise (1), Th. Henning (1), A.P. Hatzes (2), L. Pasquini (3), L. da Silva (4), L. Girardi (5), O. von der Luhe (6), M.P. Dollinger (3), A. Weiss (7), K. Biazzo (3,8) ((1) MPIA-Heidelberg, (2) TLS, (3) ESO-Garching, (4) ON/MCT, (5) INAF-OAPd, (6) KIS, (7) MPIA-Garching, (8) INAF-OACt)	 Abstract: We present the results of radial velocity measurements of two samples of active stars. The first sample contains field G and K giants across the Red Giant Branch, whereas the second sample consists of nearby young stars (d < 150 pc) with ages between 10 - 300 Myrs. The radial velocity monitoring program has been carried out with FEROS at 1.52 m ESO telescope (1999 - 2002) and continued since 2003 at 2.2 m MPG/ESO telescope. We observed stellar radial velocity variations which originate either from the stellar activity or the presence of stellar/substellar companions. By means of a bisector technique we are able to distinguish the sources of the radial velocity variation. Among them we found few candidates of planetary companions, both of young stars and G-K giants sample. 
0704.02146	Connected Edge-Disjoint Unions of Turán Graphs	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Italo J. Dejter	 Abstract: A finite connected graph $G_r^\sigma$ is constructed for $3\le r\in\mathbb{Z}$ and $\sigma\in(0,r-1)\cap\mathbb{Z}$ via ordered binary projective pencils, with each copy of $K_2$ as intersection of two induced subgraphs of $G_r^\sigma$ namely: {\bf(i)} a maximal clique $X_0=K_{2s}$ with $s=2^{r-\sigma-1}$ and {\bf(ii)} a maximal Tur\'an graph $X_1=T_{ts,t}$ with $t=2^{\sigma+1}-1$. For $i=0,1$ it holds that $G_r^\sigma$: {\bf(a)} is an edge-disjoint union of copies of $X_i$; {\bf(b)} every copy of $X_i$ in $G_r^\sigma$ shares each of its edges with just one copy of $X_{1-i}$ in $G_r^\sigma$; {\bf(c)} is $K_4$-ultrahomogeneous of order $(2^r-1)(2^r-2)$ with $2^{\sigma+1}$ edge-disjoint copies of $K_4$ at each vertex if $r-\sigma=2$; {\bf(d)} satisfies a weak definition of $\{K_{2s},T_{ts,t}\}$-{\it homogeneous graphs} that include the $\{K_4,T_{6,3}=K_{2,2,2}\}$-ultrahomogeneous graph $C_3^1$, weak in that each induced copy of $X_i$ is preserved with a distinguished arc. Computations for $r\le 8$ and $r-\sigma\le 5$ show $G_r^\sigma$ to be the connected Menger graph of a corresponding configuration. 
0704.02147	A simultaneous center-of-mass correction of nucleon density and momentum  distributions in nuclei	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:A. Shebeko, P. Grygorov	 Abstract: The approach exposed in the recent paper (A. Shebeko, P. Papakonstantinou, E. Mavrommatis, Eur. Phys. J. A 27, 143 (2006)) has been applied in studying center-of-mass motion effects on the nucleon density and momentum distributions in nuclei. We are focused upon effects due to the center-of-mass and short-range nucleon correlations embedded in translationally invariant ground-state wavefunctions. The latter are constructed in the so-called fixed center-of-mass approximation, starting with a Slater determinant wave function modified by some correlator (e.g., after Jastrow or Villars). It is shown how one can simplify evaluation of the corresponding expectation values that determine the distributions. The analytic expressions derived here involve the own "Tassie-Barker" factors for each distribution. As an illustration, numerical calculations have been carried out for the nucleus ^{4}He with the Slater determinant to describe the nucleon (1s)^4 configuration composed of single-particle orbitals which differ from harmonic oscillator ones at small distances. Such orbitals simulate somewhat short-range repulsion between nucleons. Special attention is paid to a simultaneous shrinking of the center--of--mass corrected density and momentum distributions compared to the purely (1s)^4 shell nontranslationally invariant ones. 
0704.02148	Continuous Capillary Condensation	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:A.O. Parry, C. Rascon, N.B. Wilding, R. Evans	 Abstract: We show that condensation in a capped capillary slit is a continuous interfacial critical phenomenon, related intimately to several other surface phase transitions. In three dimensions (3d), the adsorption and desorption branches correspond to the unbinding of the meniscus from the cap and opening, respectively and are equivalent to 2d-like complete-wetting transitions. For dispersion forces, the singularities on the two branches are distinct, owing to the different interplay of geometry and intermolecular forces. In 2d we establish precise connection, or covariance, with 2d critical-wetting and wedge-filling transitions, i.e. we establish that certain interfacial properties in very different geometries are identical. Our predictions of universal scaling and covariance in finite capillaries are supported by extensive Ising model simulation studies in 2d and 3d. 
0704.02149	On action of the Virasoro algebra on the space of univalent functions	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Helene Airault, Yuri A.Neretin	 Abstract: We obtain explicit expressions for differential operators defining the action of the Virasoro algebra on the space of univalent functions. We also obtain an explicit Taylor decomposition for Schwarzian derivative and a formula for the Grunsky coefficients. 
0704.02150	Comment on "Liquids on Topologically Nanopatterned Surfaces"	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:C. Rascon	 Abstract: Comment on "Liquids on Topologically Nanopatterned Surfaces" by O. Gang et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 217801 (2005). See also an erratum published by O. Gang et al (Phys Rev Lett, to appear) 
0704.02151	Spectroscopy of atomic rubidium at 500 bar buffer gas pressure:  approaching the thermal equilibrium of dressed atom-light states	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:U. Vogl, M. Weitz	 Abstract: We have recorded fluorescence spectra of the atomic rubidium D-lines in the presence of several hundreds of bars buffer gas pressure. With additional saturation broadening a spectral linewidth comparable to the thermal energy of the atoms in the heated gas cell is achieved. An intensity-dependent blue asymmetry of the spectra is observed, which becomes increasingly pronounced when extrapolating to infinitely high light intensity. We interpret our results as evidence for the dressed (coupled atom-light) states to approach thermal equilibrium. 
0704.02152	(2+1)-Einstein spacetimes of finite type	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Riccardo Benedetti, Francesco Bonsante	 Abstract: The aim of this survey is to give an overview on the geometry of Einstein maximal globally hyperbolic 2+1 spacetimes of arbitrary curvature, conatining a complete Cauchy surface of finite type. In particular a specialization to the finite type case of the canonicla Wick rotation-rescaling theory, previously developed by the authors, is provided. This includes, for arbitrary curvatures, parameterizations in terms of suitable measured geodesic laminations on open hyperbolic surfaces of finite type. The same geometric objects also parameterize complex projective structures on the surfaces. The coincidence of such parameter space is explained by means of geometric correlations between spacetimes of different curvatures and projective surfaces realized via canonical WR-rescaling along the cosmological times. We also specialize on AdS case mostly referring to recent results achieved by other authors. In particular we describe maximal causal extensions of AdS globally hyperbolic spacetimes and an AdS approach to the theory of earthquakes for hyperbolic surfaces of finite type. A general earthquake theorem is proved for the so called enhanced Teichmuller space. The case of spacetimes with conical timelike singularities is also treated. 
0704.02153	Free pre-Lie algebras are free as Lie algebras	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Frédéric Chapoton (ICJ)	 Abstract: We prove that free pre-Lie algebras, when considered as Lie algebras, are free. Working in the category of S-modules, we define a natural filtration on the space of generators. We also relate the symmetric group action on generators with the structure of the anticyclic PreLie operad. 
0704.02154	Photonic molecules made of matched and mismatched microcavities: new  functionalities of microlasers and optoelectronic components	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Svetlana V. Boriskina, Trevor M. Benson, Phillip Sewell	 Abstract: Photonic molecules, named by analogy with chemical molecules, are clusters of closely located electromagnetically interacting microcavities or "photonic atoms". As two or several microcavities are brought close together, their optical modes interact, and a rich spectrum of photonic molecule supermodes emerges, which depends both on geometrical and material properties of individual cavities and on their mutual interactions. Here, we discuss ways of controllable manipulation of photonic molecule supermodes, which improve or add new functionalities to microcavity-based optical components. We present several optimally-tuned photonic molecule designs for lowering thresholds of semiconductor microlasers, producing directional light emission, enhancing sensitivity of microcavity-based bio(chemical)sensors, and optimizing electromagnetic energy transfer around bends of coupled-cavity waveguides. Photonic molecules composed of identical microcavities as well as of microcavities with various degrees of size or material detuning are discussed. Microwave experiments on scaled photonic molecule structures are currently under way to confirm our theoretical predictions. 
0704.02155	Atom-molecule Rabi oscillations in a Mott insulator	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:N. Syassen, D. M. Bauer, M. Lettner, D. Dietze, T. Volz, S. Dürr, G. Rempe	 Abstract: We observe large-amplitude Rabi oscillations between an atomic and a molecular state near a Feshbach resonance. The experiment uses 87Rb in an optical lattice and a Feshbach resonance near 414 G. The frequency and amplitude of the oscillations depend on magnetic field in a way that is well described by a two-level model. The observed density dependence of the oscillation frequency agrees with the theoretical expectation. We confirmed that the state produced after a half-cycle contains exactly one molecule at each lattice site. In addition, we show that for energies in a gap of the lattice band structure, the molecules cannot dissociate. 
0704.02156	First study of the gluon-quark-antiquark static potential in SU(3)  Lattice QCD	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:P. Bicudo, M. Cardoso, O. Oliveira	 Abstract: We study the long distance interaction for hybrid hadrons, with a static gluon, a quark and an antiquark with lattice QCD techniques. A Wilson loop adequate to the static hybrid three-body system is developed and, using a 24^3 x 48 periodic lattice with beta=6.2 and a ~ 0.075 fm, two different geometries for the gluon-quark segment and the gluon-antiquark segment are investigated. When these segments are perpendicular, the static potential is compatible with confinement realized with a pair of fundamental strings, one linking the gluon to the quark and another linking the same gluon to the antiquark. When the segments are parallel and superposed, the total string tension is larger and agrees with the Casimir Scaling measured by Bali. This can be interpreted with a type-II superconductor analogy for the confinement in QCD, with repulsion of the fundamental strings and with the string tension of the first topological excitation of the string (the adjoint string) larger than the double of the fundamental string tension. 
0704.02157	Maximum Entropy for Gravitational Wave Data Analysis: Inferring the  Physical Parameters of Core-Collapse Supernovae	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T. Z. Summerscales, Adam Burrows, Christian D. Ott, Lee Samuel Finn	 Abstract: The gravitational wave signal arising from the collapsing iron core of a Type II supernova progenitor star carries with it the imprint of the progenitor's mass, rotation rate, degree of differential rotation, and the bounce depth. Here, we show how to infer the gravitational radiation waveform of a core collapse event from noisy observations in a network of two or more LIGO-like gravitational wave detectors and, from the recovered signal, constrain these source properties. Using these techniques, predictions from recent core collapse modeling efforts, and the LIGO performance during its S4 science run, we also show that gravitational wave observations by LIGO might have been sufficient to provide reasonable estimates of the progenitor mass, angular momentum and differential angular momentum, and depth of the core at bounce, for a rotating core collapse event at a distance of a few kpc. 
0704.02158	Photon-jet correlations in $pp$ and $p \bar p$ collisions	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Tomasz Pietrycki, Antoni Szczurek	 Abstract: We compare results of the $k_t$-factorization approach and the next-to-leading order collinear-factorization approach for photon-jet correlations in $pp$ and $p \bar p$ collisions at RHIC and Tevatron energies. We discuss correlations in the azimuthal angle as well as in the two-dimensional space of transverse momentum of photon and jet. Different unintegrated parton distributions (UPDF) are included in the $k_t$-factorization approach. The results depend on UPDFs used. The standard collinear approach gives cross section comparable to the $k_t$-factorization approach. For correlations of the photon and any jet the NLO contributions dominate at relatively small azimuthal angles as well as for asymmetric transverse momenta. For correlations of the photon with the leading jet (the one having the biggest transverse momentum) the NLO approach gives zero contribution at $\phi_{-} < \pi/2$ which opens a possibility to study higher-order terms and/or UPDFs in this region. 
0704.02159	Accretion Disk Illumination in Schwarzschild and Kerr Geometries:  Fitting Formulae	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Keigo Fukumura, Demosthenes Kazanas	 Abstract: We describe the methodology and compute the illumination of geometrically thin accretion disks around black holes of arbitrary spin parameter $a$ exposed to the radiation of a point-like, isotropic source at arbitrary height above the disk on its symmetry axis. We then provide analytic fitting formulae for the illumination as a function of the source height $h$ and the black hole angular momentum $a$. We find that for a source on the disk symmetry axis and $h/M > 3$, the main effect of the parameter $a$ is allowing the disk to extend to smaller radii (approaching $r/M \to 1$ as $a/M \to 1$) and thus allow the illumination of regions of much higher rotational velocity and redshift. We also compute the illumination profiles for anisotropic emission associated with the motion of the source relative to the accretion disk and present the fractions of photons absorbed by the black hole, intercepted by the disk or escaping to infinity for both isotropic and anisotropic emission for $a/M=0$ and $a/M=0.99$. As the anisotropy (of a source approaching the disk) increases the illumination profile reduces (approximately) to a single power-law, whose index, $q$, because of absorption of the beamed photons by the black hole, saturates to a value no higher than $q \gtrsim 3$. Finally, we compute the fluorescence Fe line profiles associated with the specific illumination and compare them among various cases. 
0704.02160	Characterization of Instrumental Phase Stability	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D.Y. Kubo, T.R. Hunter, R.D. Christensen, P.I. Yamaguchi	 Abstract: Atmospheric water vapor causes significant undesired phase fluctuations for the Submillimeter Array (SMA) interferometer, particularly in its highest frequency observing band of 690 GHz. One proposed solution to this atmospheric effect is to observe simultaneously at two separate frequency bands of 230 and 690 GHz. Although the phase fluctuations have a smaller magnitude at the lower frequency, they can be measured more accurately and on shorter timescales due to the greater sensitivity of the array to celestial point source calibrators at this frequency. In theory, we can measure the atmospheric phase fluctuations in the 230 GHz band, scale them appropriately with frequency, and apply them to the data in 690 band during the post-observation calibration process. The ultimate limit to this atmospheric phase calibration scheme will be set by the instrumental phase stability of the IF and LO systems. We describe the methodology and initial results of the phase stability characterization of the IF and LO systems. 
0704.02161	Localization of injective modules over arithmetical rings	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Francois Couchot (LMNO)	 Abstract: It is proved that localizations of injective $R$-modules of finite Goldie dimension are injective if $R$ is an arithmetical ring satisfying the following condition: for every maximal ideal $P$, $R_P$ is either coherent or not semicoherent. If, in addition, each finitely generated $R$-module has finite Goldie dimension, then localizations of finitely injective $R$-modules are finitely injective too. Moreover, if $R$ is a Pr\"ufer domain of finite character, localizations of injective $R$-modules are injective. 
0704.02162	Modified Coulomb Law in a Strongly Magnetized Vacuum	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Anatoly E. Shabad (1), Vladimir V. Usov (2) ((1) P.N. Lebedev Physics Institute, Moscow, Russia, (2) Center for Astrophysics, Weizmann Institute, Rehovot, Israel)	 Abstract: We study electric potential of a charge placed in a strong magnetic field B>>4.4x10^{13}G, as modified by the vacuum polarization. In such field the electron Larmour radius is much less than its Compton length. At the Larmour distances a scaling law occurs, with the potential determined by a magnetic-field-independent function. The scaling regime implies short-range interaction, expressed by Yukawa law. The electromagnetic interaction regains its long-range character at distances larger than the Compton length, the potential decreasing across the magnetic field faster than along. Correction to the nonrelativistic ground-state energy of a hydrogenlike atom is found. In the infinite-magnetic-field limit the modified potential becomes the Dirac delta-function plus a regular background. With this potential the ground-state energy is finite - the best pronounced effect of the vacuum polarization. 
0704.02163	Social networks and labour productivity in Europe: An empirical  investigation	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:C. Di Guilmi, F. Clementi, T. Di Matteo, M. Gallegati	 Abstract: This paper uses firm-level data recorded in the AMADEUS database to investigate the distribution of labour productivity in different European countries. We find that the upper tail of the empirical productivity distributions follows a decaying power-law, whose exponent $\alpha$ is obtained by a semi-parametric estimation technique recently developed by Clementi et al. (2006). The emergence of "fat tails" in productivity distribution has already been detected in Di Matteo et al. (2005) and explained by means of a model of social network. Here we show that this model is tested on a broader sample of countries having different patterns of social network structure. These different social attitudes, measured using a social capital indicator, reflect in the power-law exponent estimates, verifying in this way the existence of linkages among firms' productivity performance and social network. 
0704.02164	Charmed Meson Production in Deep Inelastic Scattering	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:B. Floter, B. Z. Kopeliovich, H.J. Pirner, J. Raufeisen	 Abstract: Charmed meson production in semi-inclusive deep inelastic scattering is investigated in the color dipole formalism. The transverse momentum distributions are calculated. We find good agreement with the H1 data using a hard fragmentation function. 
0704.02165	CP violation in unpolarized e^+ e^- to charginos at one loop level	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:P. Osland, A. Vereshagin	 Abstract: We study CP violation in e^+ e^- to \tilde\chi_i^+\tilde\chi_j^- in the framework of the MSSM. Though the cross section of this process is CP-even at the tree level even for polarized electron-positron beams, we show that it contains a CP-odd part at the one loop order and there are CP-odd observables that can in principle be measured even using unpolarized electron-positron beams. The relevant diagram calculations are briefly discussed and the results of selected (box) diagram computations are shown. 
0704.02166	Water vapor and silicon monoxide maser observations in the  protoplanetary nebula OH 231.8+4	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J.-F. Desmurs, J. Alcolea, V. Bujarrabal, C. Sanchez Contreras, F. Colomer	 Abstract: OH 231.8+4.2 is a well studied preplanetary nebula (pPN) around a binary stellar system that shows a remarkable bipolar outflow. To study the structure and kinematics of the inner 10-80 AU nebular regions we performed high-resolution observations of the H$_2$O 6$_{1,6}$--5$_{2,3}$ and $^{28}$SiO $v$=2, $J$=1--0 maser emissions with the Very Long Baseline Array. The absolute position of both emission distributions were recovered using the phase referencing technique, and accurately registered in HST optical images. H$_2$O maser clumps are found to be distributed in two areas of 20 mas in size spatially displaced by $\sim$60 milli-arcseconds along an axis oriented nearly north-south. SiO masers are tentatively found to be placed between the two H$_2$O maser emitting regions, probably indicating the position of the Mira component of the system. The SiO maser emission traces an inner equatorial component with a diameter of 12 AU, probably a disk rotating around the M-type star. Outwards, we detect in the H$_2$O data a pair of polar caps, separated by 80 AU. We believe that the inner regions of the nebula probably have been altered by the presence of the companion, leading to an equator-to-pole density contrast that may explain the lack of H$_2$O masers and strong SiO maser emission in the denser, equatorial regions. 
0704.02167	On the Computational Complexity of MCMC-based Estimators in Large  Samples	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Alexandre Belloni, Victor Chernozhukov	 Abstract: In this paper we examine the implications of the statistical large sample theory for the computational complexity of Bayesian and quasi-Bayesian estimation carried out using Metropolis random walks. Our analysis is motivated by the Laplace-Bernstein-Von Mises central limit theorem, which states that in large samples the posterior or quasi-posterior approaches a normal density. Using the conditions required for the central limit theorem to hold, we establish polynomial bounds on the computational complexity of general Metropolis random walks methods in large samples. Our analysis covers cases where the underlying log-likelihood or extremum criterion function is possibly non-concave, discontinuous, and with increasing parameter dimension. However, the central limit theorem restricts the deviations from continuity and log-concavity of the log-likelihood or extremum criterion function in a very specific manner. Under minimal assumptions required for the central limit theorem to hold under the increasing parameter dimension, we show that the Metropolis algorithm is theoretically efficient even for the canonical Gaussian walk which is studied in detail. Specifically, we show that the running time of the algorithm in large samples is bounded in probability by a polynomial in the parameter dimension $d$, and, in particular, is of stochastic order $d^2$ in the leading cases after the burn-in period. We then give applications to exponential families, curved exponential families, and Z-estimation of increasing dimension. 
0704.02168	Energetics of positron states trapped at vacancies in solids	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:I. Makkonen, M. J. Puska	 Abstract: We report a computational first-principles study of positron trapping at vacancy defects in metals and semiconductors. The main emphasis is on the energetics of the trapping process including the interplay between the positron state and the defect's ionic structure and on the ensuing annihilation characteristics of the trapped state. For vacancies in covalent semiconductors the ion relaxation is a crucial part of the positron trapping process enabling the localization of the positron state. However, positron trapping does not strongly affect the characteristic features of the electronic structure, e.g., the ionization levels change only moderately. Also in the case of metal vacancies the positron-induced ion relaxation has a noticeable effect on the calculated positron lifetime and momentum distribution of annihilating electron-positron pairs. 
0704.02169	An exact sequence for contact- and symplectic homology	Symplectic Geometry (math.SG)	Authors:Frédéric Bourgeois, Alexandru Oancea	 Abstract: A symplectic manifold $W$ with contact type boundary $M = \partial W$ induces a linearization of the contact homology of $M$ with corresponding linearized contact homology $HC(M)$. We establish a Gysin-type exact sequence in which the symplectic homology $SH(W)$ of $W$ maps to $HC(M)$, which in turn maps to $HC(M)$, by a map of degree -2, which then maps to $SH(W)$. Furthermore, we give a description of the degree -2 map in terms of rational holomorphic curves with constrained asymptotic markers, in the symplectization of $M$. 
0704.02170	CeRuPO: A rare example of a Ferromagnetic Kondo lattice	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:C. Krellner, N.S. Kini, E.M. Bruning, K. Koch, H. Rosner, M. Nicklas, M. Baenitz, C. Geibel (Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, Dresden, Germany)	 Abstract: We have determined the physical ground state properties of the compounds CeRuPO and CeOsPO by means of magnetic susceptibility chi(T), specific heat C(T), electrical resistivity rho(T), and thermopower S(T) measurements. chi(T) reveals a trivalent 4f1 cerium state in both compounds. For CeRuPO a pronounced decrease of rho(T) below 50K indicates the onset of coherent Kondo scattering which is confirmed by enhanced S(T). The temperature and magnetic field dependence of chi(T) and C(T) evidence ferromagnetic (FM) order at TC=15K. Thus, CeRuPO seems to be one of the rare example of a FM Kondo lattice. In contrast, CeOsPO shows antiferromagnetic order at TN=4.4K despite only minor changes in lattice parameters and electronic configuration. Additional 31P NMR results support these scenarios. LSDA+U calculations evidence a quasi two dimensional electronic band structure, reflecting a strong covalent bonding within the CeO and RuP layers and a weak ionic like bonding between the layers. 
0704.02171	Fluctuation-induced interactions between dielectrics in general  geometries	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:S. Pasquali, A.C. Maggs	 Abstract: We study thermal Casimir and quantum non-retarded Lifshitz interactions between dielectrics in general geometries. We map the calculation of the classical partition function onto a determinant which we discretize and evaluate with the help of Cholesky factorization. The quantum partition function is treated by path integral quantization of a set of interacting dipoles and reduces to a product of determinants. We compare the approximations of pairwise additivity and proximity force with our numerical methods. We propose a ``factorization approximation'' which gives rather good numerical results in the geometries that we study. 
0704.02172	Electroweak Chiral Lagrangian for Left-right Symmetric Models	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Ying Zhang, Shun-Zhi Wang, Feng-Jun Ge, Qing Wang	 Abstract: The complete list of electroweak chiral Lagrangian up to order of p4 for left-right symmetric models with a neutral light higgs is provided. The connection of these operators to left and right gauge boson mixings and masses is made and their contribution to conventional generalized electroweak chiral Lagrangian with a neutral light higgs included in is estimated. 
0704.02173	Speckle reduction in ocular wave-front sensing	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:V. Albanis, E. N. Ribak, Y. Carmon	 Abstract: An acousto-optic cell was used to reduce the speckle noise that reduces the quality of Hartmann-Shack and other wave-front sensors measuring ocular aberrations. In the method presented here, a laser beam traverses an acousto-optic cell, interacting with standing acoustic waves. Speckle reduction takes place as the incoming beam is diffractively spread across the cornea. The increased size and the wider angular spread of the incoming beam average out the speckles, producing a more uniform response of the wave-front sensor. 
0704.02174	Good News for MOS, MXU & Co. - The New Spectroscopic Pipeline for the  FORSes	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Moehler	 Abstract: Since October 1, 2006, spectroscopic data from the two FORS instruments have been reduced with a new pipeline, which is based on a bottom-up calibration approach. I give a short description of the pipeline and discuss first experiences with automatic data reduction using this software, which has significantly increased the percentage of processed data for both instruments. I will also describe possible new options for Quality Control. 
0704.02175	Statistical properties of dust far-infrared emission	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M.-A. Miville-Deschenes (IAS, CITA), G. Lagache (IAS), F. Boulanger (IAS), J.-L. Puget (IAS)	 Abstract: The description of the statistical properties of dust emission gives important constraints on the physics of the interstellar medium but it is also a useful way to estimate the contamination of diffuse interstellar emission in the cases where it is considered a nuisance. The main goals of this analysis of the power spectrum and non-Gaussian properties of 100 micron dust emission are 1) to estimate the power spectrum of interstellar matter density in three dimensions, 2) to review and extend previous estimates of the cirrus noise due to dust emission and 3) to produce simulated dust emission maps that reproduce the observed statistical properties. The main results are the following. 1) The cirrus noise level as a function of brightness has been previously overestimated. It is found to be proportional to <I> instead of <I>^1.5, where <I> is the local average brightness at 100 micron. This scaling is in accordance with the fact that the brightness fluctuation level observed at a given angular scale on the sky is the sum of fluctuations of increasing amplitude with distance on the line of sight. 2) The spectral index of dust emission at scales between 5 arcmin and 12.5 degrees is <gamma>=-2.9 on average but shows significant variations over the sky. Bright regions have systematically steeper power spectra than diffuse regions. 3) The skewness and kurtosis of brightness fluctuations is high, indicative of strong non-Gaussianity. 4) Based on our characterization of the 100 micron power spectrum we provide a prescription of the cirrus confusion noise as a function of wavelength and scale. 5) Finally we present a method based on a modification of Gaussian random fields to produce simulations of dust maps which reproduce the power spectrum and non-Gaussian properties of interstellar dust emission. 
0704.02176	Theoretical treatments of fusion processes in collisions of weakly bound  nuclei	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:L. F. Canto, R. Donangelo, M. S. Hussein	 Abstract: We review the theoretical methods to evaluate fusion cross sections in collisions of weakly bound nuclei. We piont out that in such collisions the coupling to the breakup channel leads to the appearance of different fusion processes. The extentsion of the coupled-channel method to coupling with the continuum is the most successful treatment for these collisions. However, evaluating separate cross section for each fusion process remains a very hard task. 
0704.02177	Unravelling the morphologies of Luminous Compact Galaxies using the  HST/ACS GOODS survey	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Rawat (1 and 2), A. K. Kembhavi (2), F. Hammer (1), H. Flores (1), S. Barway (2) ((1) GEPI Observatoire de Paris Meudon France, (2) Inter University Center for Astronomy and Astrophysics IUCAA, Pune India)	 Abstract: (Abridged) Luminous Compact Galaxies (LCGs) (M_B < -20, R_{1/2} < 4.5kpc and EW_{0}(OII) >15\AA) constitute one of the most rapidly evolving galaxy populations over the last ~8 Gyr history of the universe. Due to their inherently compact sizes, any detailed quantitative analysis of their morphologies has proved to be difficult in the past. In this work we use the high angular resolution imaging data, from the HST/ACS GOODS survey, to study the quantitative morphology of a complete sample of LCGs in the redshift range 0.5 < z < 1.2. We have derived structural parameters for a representative sample of 39 LCGs selected from the GOODS-S field, using full 2-dimensional surface brightness profile fitting of the galaxy images in each of the four filters available. B-z color maps are used as an aid in the morphological classification. We then use the rest frame B band bulge flux fraction (B/T) to determine the morphological class of the galaxies. Mergers were essentially identified visually by the presence of multiple maxima of comparable intensity in the rest frame B band images, aided by the color maps to distinguish them from HII regions. We derive the following morphological mix for our sample of intermediate redshift LCGs: Mergers: ~36%, Disk dominated: ~22%, S0: ~20%, Early types: ~7%, Irr/tadpole: ~15%. We establish that our sample LCGs are intermediate mass objects with a median stellar mass of Log(M/M_{\odot})=10.32. We also derive dust enshrouded SFR values ranging from a few to ~65 $M_{\odot}$/year using Spitzer 24$\mu m$ data. We estimate a factor ~11 fall in the comoving number density of blue LCGs from redshifts 0.5 < z < 1.2 to the current epoch. We finally discuss the evolutionary scenario of these LCGs which might give us some clues regarding their descendants in the local universe. 
0704.02178	High-Energy Calibration of a BGO detector of the GLAST Burst Monitor	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Andreas von Kienlin, Gerald J. Fishman, Michael S. Briggs, Gary L. Godfrey, Helmut Steinle	 Abstract: The understanding of the instrumental response of the GLAST Burst Monitor BGO detectors at energies above the energy range which is accessible by common laboratory radiation sources (< 4.43 MeV), is important, especially for the later cross-calibration with the LAT response in the overlap region between ~ 20 MeV to 30 MeV. In November 2006 the high-energy calibration of the GBM-BGO spare detector was performed at the small Van-de-Graaff accelerator at SLAC. High-energy gamma-rays from excited 8Be* (14.6 MeV and 17.5 MeV) and 16O* (6.1 MeV) were generated through (p,gamma)-reactions by irradiating a LiF-target. For the calibration at lower energies radioactive sources were used. The results, including spectra, the energy/channel-relation and the dependence of energy resolution are presented. 
0704.02179	Spitzer spectral line mapping of supernova remnants: I. Basic data and  principal component analysis	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:David A. Neufeld (JHU), David J. Hollenbach (NASA-Ames), Michael J. Kaufman (SJSU), Ronald L. Snell (UMass), Gary J. Melnick (CfA), Edwin A. Bergin (UMich), Paule Sonnentrucker (JHU)	 Abstract: We report the results of spectroscopic mapping observations carried out toward small (1 x 1 arcmin) regions within the supernova remnants W44, W28, IC443, and 3C391 using the Infrared Spectrograph of the Spitzer Space Telescope. These observations, covering the 5.2 - 37 micron spectral region, have led to the detection of a total of 15 fine structure transitions of Ne+, Ne++, Si+, P+, S, S++, Cl+, Fe+, and Fe++; the S(0) - S(7) pure rotational lines of molecular hydrogen; and the R(3) and R(4) transitions of hydrogen deuteride. In addition to these 25 spectral lines, the 6.2, 7.7, 8.6, 11.3 and 12.6 micron PAH emission bands were also observed. Most of the detected line transitions have proven strong enough to map in several sources, providing a comprehensive picture of the relative distribution of the various line emissions observable in the Spitzer/IRS bandpass. A principal component analysis of the spectral line maps reveals that the observed emission lines fall into five distinct groups, each of which may exhibit a distinct spatial distribution: (1) lines of S and H2 (J > 2); (2) the H2 S(0) line; (3) lines of ions with appearance potentials less than 13.6 eV; (4) lines of ions with appearance potentials greater than 13.6 eV, not including S++; (5) lines of S++. Lines of group (1) likely originate in molecular material subject to a slow, nondissociative shock that is driven by the overpressure within the supernova remnant, and lines in groups (3) - (5) are associated primarily with dissociative shock fronts with a range of (larger) shock velocities. The H2 S(0) line shows a low-density diffuse emission component, and - in some sources - a shock-excited component. 
0704.02180	Single photoeffect on helium-like ions in the non-relativistic region	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:A.I. Mikhailov, A.V. Nefiodov, G. Plunien	 Abstract: We present a generalization of the pioneering results obtained for single K-shell photoionization of H-like ions by M. Stobbe [Ann. Phys. 7 (1930) 661] to the case of the helium isoelectronic sequence. The total cross section of the process is calculated, taking into account the correlation corrections to first order of the perturbation theory with respect to the electron-electron interaction. Predictions are made for the entire non-relativistic energy domain. The phenomenon of dynamical suppression of correlation effects in the ionization cross section is discussed. 
0704.02181	DMRG study of the Bond Alternating \textbf{S}=1/2 Heisenberg ladder with  Ferro-Antiferromagnetic couplings	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:J. Almeida, M.A. Martin-Delgado, G. Sierra	 Abstract: We obtain the phase diagram in the parameter space $(J'/J, \gamma)$ and an accurate estimate of the critical line separating the different phases. We show several measuments of the magnetization, dimerization, nearest neighbours correlation, and density of energy in the different zones of the phase diagram, as well as a measurement of the string order parameter proposed as the non vanishing phase order parameter characterizing Haldane phases. All these results will be compared in the limit $J'/J\gg 1$ with the behaviour of the $\textbf{S}=1$ Bond Alternated Heisenberg Chain (BAHC). The analysis of our data supports the existence of a dimer phase separated by a critical line from a Haldane one, which has exactly the same nature as the Haldane phase in the $\textbf{S}=1$ BAHC. 
0704.02182	Metal and molecule cooling in simulations of structure formation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:U. Maio, K. Dolag, B. Ciardi, L. Tornatore	 Abstract: Cooling is the main process leading to the condensation of gas in the dark matter potential wells and consequently to star and structure formation. In a metal-free environment, the main available coolants are H, He, H$_2$ and HD; once the gas is enriched with metals, these also become important in defining the cooling properties of the gas. We discuss the implementation in Gadget-2 of molecular and metal cooling at temperatures lower that $\rm10^4 K$, following the time dependent properties of the gas and pollution from stellar evolution. We have checked the validity of our scheme comparing the results of some test runs with previous calculations of cosmic abundance evolution and structure formation, finding excellent agreement. We have also investigated the relevance of molecule and metal cooling in some specific cases, finding that inclusion of HD cooling results in a higher clumping factor of the gas at high redshifts, while metal cooling at low temperatures can have a significant impact on the formation and evolution of cold objects. 
0704.02183	Stability in random Boolean cellular automata on the integer lattice	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:F.M. Dekking, L. van Driel, A. Fey	 Abstract: We consider random boolean cellular automata on the integer lattice, i.e., the cells are identified with the integers from 1 to $N$. The behaviour of the automaton is mainly determined by the support of the random variable that selects one of the sixteen possible Boolean rules, independently for each cell. A cell is said to stabilize if it will not change its state anymore after some time. We classify the random boolean automata according to the positivity of their probability of stabilization. Here is an example of a consequence of our results: if the support contains at least 5 rules, then asymptotically as $N$ tends to infinity the probability of stabilization is positive, whereas there exist random boolean cellular automata with 4 rules in their support for which this probability tends to 0. 
0704.02184	Calibration of the GLAST Burst Monitor detectors	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Andreas von Kienlin, Elisabetta Bissaldi, Giselher G. Lichti, Helmut Steinle, Michael Krumrey, Martin Gerlach, Gerald J. Fishman, Charles Meegan, Narayana Bhat, Michael S. Briggs, Roland Diehl, Valerie Connaughton, Jochen Greiner, R. Marc Kippen, Chryssa Kouveliotou, William Paciesas, Robert Preece, Colleen Wilson-Hodge	 Abstract: The GLAST Burst Monitor (GBM) will augment the capabilities of GLAST for the detection of cosmic gamma-ray bursts by extending the energy range (20 MeV to > 300 GeV) of the Large Area Telescope (LAT) towards lower energies by 2 BGO-detectors (150 keV to 30 MeV) and 12 NaI(Tl) detectors (10 keV to 1 MeV). The physical detector response of the GBM instrument for GRBs is determined with the help of Monte Carlo simulations, which are supported and verified by on-ground calibration measurements, performed extensively with the individual detectors at the MPE in 2005. All flight and spare detectors were irradiated with calibrated radioactive sources in the laboratory (from 14 keV to 4.43 MeV). The energy/channel-relations, the dependences of energy resolution and effective areas on the energy and the angular responses were measured. Due to the low number of emission lines of radioactive sources below 100 keV, calibration measurements in the energy range from 10 keV to 60 keV were performed with the X-ray radiometry working group of the Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt (PTB) at the BESSY synchrotron radiation facility, Berlin. 
0704.02185	Dispersion relations and subtractions in hard exclusive processes	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:I. V. Anikin, O. V. Teryaev	 Abstract: We study analytical properties of the hard exclusive processes amplitudes. We found that QCD factorization for deeply virtual Compton scattering and hard exclusive vector meson production results in the subtracted dispersion relation with the subtraction constant determined by the Polyakov-Weiss $D$-term. The relation of this constant to the fixed pole contribution found by Brodsky, Close and Gunion and defined by parton distributions is proved, while its manifestation is spoiled by the small $x$ divergence. The continuation to the real photons limit is considered and the numerical correspondence between lattice simulations of $D$-term and low energy Thomson amplitude is found. 
0704.02186	Metal and molecule cooling in simulations of structure formation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:U. Maio, K. Dolag, B. Ciardi, L. Tornatore	 Abstract: This submission has been withdrawn by arXiv administrators because it is a duplicate of 0704.2182. 
0704.02187	Light curves and colours of the faint Uranian irregular satellites  Sycorax, Prospero, Stephano, Setebos and Trinculo	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Michele Maris, Giovanni Carraro, M. Gabriela Parisi	 Abstract: After the work of Gladman et al. (1998), it is now assessed that many irregular satellites are orbiting around Uranus. Despite many studies have been performed in past years, very few is know for the light-curves of these objects and inconsistencies are present between colours derived by different authors. This situation motivated our effort to improve both the knowledge of colours and light curves. We present and discuss time series observations of Sycorax, Prospero, Stephano, Setebos and Trinculo, five faint irregular satellites of Uranus, carried out at VLT, ESO Paranal (Chile) in the nights between 29 and 30 July, 2005 and 25 and 30 November, 2005. We derive light curves for Sycorax and Prospero and colours for all of these these bodies. For Sycorax we obtain colours B-V =0.839 +/- 0.014, V-R = 0.531 +/- 0.005 and a light curve which is suggestive of a periodical variation with period about 3.6 hours and amplitude about 0.067 +/- 0.004 mag. The periods and colours we derive for Sycorax are in agreement with our previous determination in 1999 using NTT. We derive also a light-curve for Prospero which suggests an amplitude of about 0.2 mag and a periodicity of about 4 hours. However, the sparseness of our data, prevents a more precise characterization of the light-curves, and we can not determine wether they are one-peaked or two-peaked. Hence, these periods and amplitudes have to be considered preliminary estimates. As for Setebos, Stephano and Trinculo the present data do not allow to derive any unambiguous periodicity, despite Setebos displays a significant variability with amplitude about as large as that of Prospero. Colours for Prospero, Setebos, Stephano and Trinculo are in marginal agreement with the literature. 
0704.02188	Route to Room-Temperature Superconductivity from a Practical Point of  View	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:A. Mourachkine	 Abstract: To synthesize a new superconductor which has a critical temperature, Tc, exceeding the room temperature, one needs to know what chemical components to start with. This chapter presents analysis of experimental data which allow one to draw a conclusion about components and the structure of a potential room-temperature superconductor. The two essential components of a room temperature superconductor are large organic molecules (polymers, tissues) and atoms/molecules which are magnetic in the intercalated state. This conclusion is fully based on experimental facts known today, and does not require any assumptions about the mechanism of room-temperature superconductivity. This, however, does not mean that to synthesize a room-temperature superconductor is an easy task. 
0704.02189	Selection effects shaping the Gamma Ray Burst redshift distributions	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:F. Fiore, D. Guetta, S. Piranomonte, V. D'Elia, L.A. Antonelli	 Abstract: Long Gamma Ray Bursts hold the promise of probing star-formation and metal enrichment up to very high redshifts. The present GRB samples with redshift determination are largely incomplete and therefore a careful analysis of selection effects is mandatory before any conclusion can be drawn from the observed GRB redshift distribution. We study and compare three well defined samples of long GRBs detected by Swift, HETE2 and BeppoSAX. We find that Swift GRBs are slighly fainter and harder than BeppoSAX and HETE2 GRBs, as expected due to the higher energy range in which Swift GRBs are detected and localized, compared to BeppoSAX and HETE2. Gas and dust obscuration plays a role in shaping the GRB samples and the present samples of GRBs with redshift. We argue that the majority of the bright Swift GRBs without redshift might actually be z<~2 events therefore the present Swift GRB sample with redshift is biased against low-z GRBs. On the other hand, the detection of bright UV rest-frame afterglows from high-z GRBs, and even from those with large X-ray obscuration, implies a dust amount lower than in nearby GRBs,and/or a different dust composition. If this is the case, the Swift sample of GRBs with redshifts is probably a fair sample of the real high-z GRB population. The absence of high-z GRBs in the BeppoSAX and HETE2 samples of GRBs with redshifts is probably due to the fact at the time of BeppoSAX and HETE2 follow-up faint afterglows of high redshift GRBs will have weaken below the spectroscopic capabilities of even 10m class telescopes. The redshift distribution of a subsample of Swift GRBs with distributions of peak-fluxes, X-ray obscuration and optical magnitude at a fixed observing time similar to those of the BeppoSAX and HETE2 samples, is roughly consistent with BeppoSAX+HETE2 redshift distribution. 
0704.02190	Theoretical study of the accuracy limits for the optical resonance  frequency measurements	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:L. Labzowsky, G. Schedrin, D. Solovyev, G. Plunien	 Abstract: The principal limits for the accuracy of the resonance frequency measurements set by the asymmetry of the natural resonance line shape are studied and applied to the recent accurate frequency measurements in the two-photon 1s-2s resonance and in the one-photon 1s-2p resonance in hydrogen atom. This limit for 1s-2s resonance is found to be $\sim 10^{-5}$ Hz compared to the accuracy achieved in experiment $\pm 46$ Hz. In case of deuterium atom the limit is essentially larger: $10^{-2}$ Hz. For 1s-2p resonance the accuracy limit is 0.17 MHz while the uncertainty of the recent frequency measurement is about 6 MHz. 
0704.02191	Mismatch Repair Error Implies Chargaff's Second Parity Rule	Genomics (q-bio.GN)	Authors:Bo Deng	 Abstract: Chargaff's second parity rule holds empirically for most types of DNA that along single strands of DNA the base contents are equal for complimentary bases, A = T, G = C. A Markov chain model is constructed to track the evolution of any single base position along single strands of genomes whose organisms are equipped with replication mismatch repair. Under the key assumptions that mismatch error rates primarily depend the number of hydrogen bonds of nucleotides and that the mismatch repairing process itself makes strand recognition error, the model shows that the steady state probabilities for any base position to take on one of the 4 nucleotide bases are equal for complimentary bases. As a result, Chargaff's second parity rule is the manifestation of the Law of Large Number acting on the steady state probabilities. More importantly, because the model pinpoints mismatch repair as a basis of the rule, it is suitable for experimental verification. 
0704.02192	Comptonization and the Spectra of Accretion-Powered X-Ray Pulsars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Michael T. Wolff, Peter A. Becker, Kenneth D. Wolfram	 Abstract: Accretion-powered X-ray pulsars are among the most luminous X-ray sources in the Galaxy. However, despite decades of theoretical and observational work since their discovery, no satisfactory model for the formation of the observed X-ray spectra has emerged. In this paper, we report on a self-consistent calculation of the spectrum emerging from a pulsar accretion column that includes an explicit treatment of the bulk and thermal Comptonization occurring in the radiation-dominated shocks that form in the accretion flows. Using a rigorous eigenfunction expansion method, we obtain a closed-form expression for the Green's function describing the upscattering of monochromatic radiation injected into the column. The Green's function is convolved with bremsstrahlung, cyclotron, and blackbody source terms to calculate the emergent photon spectrum. We show that energization of photons in the shock naturally produces an X-ray spectrum with a relatively flat continuum and a high-energy exponential cutoff. Finally, we demonstrate that our model yields good agreement with the spectra of the bright pulsar Her X-1 and the low luminosity pulsar X Per. 
0704.02193	Liquid Drop Stability of a Superdeformed Prolate Semi-Spheroidal Atomic  Cluster	Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)	Authors:D. N. Poenaru, R. A. Gherghescu, A. V. Solov'yov, W. Greiner	 Abstract: Analytical relationships for the surface and curvature energies of oblate and prolate semi-spheroidal atomic clusters have been obtained. By modifying the cluster shape from a spheroid to a semi-spheroid the most stable shape was changed from a sphere to a superdeformed prolate semi-spheroid (including the flat surface of the end cap). Potential energy surfaces vs. deformation and the number of atoms, N, illustrate this property independent of N. 
0704.02194	Casimir Friction I: Friction of a vacuum on a spinning dielectric	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Yves Pomeau, David C. Roberts	 Abstract: We introduce the concept of Casimir friction, i.e. friction due to quantum fluctuations. In this first article we describe the calculation of a constant torque, arising from the scattering of quantum fluctuations, on a dielectric rotating in an electromagnetic vacuum. 
0704.02195	Absolute Calibration and Characterization of the Multiband Imaging  Photometer for Spitzer. I. The Stellar Calibrator Sample and the 24 micron  Calibration	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C. W. Engelbracht, M. Blaylock, K. Y. L. Su, J. Rho, G. H. Rieke, J. Muzerolle, D. L. Padgett, D. C. Hines, K. D. Gordon, D. Fadda, A. Noriega-Crespo, D. M. Kelly, W. B. Latter, J. L. Hinz, K. A. Misselt, J. E. Morrison, J. A. Stansberry, D. L. Shupe, S. Stolovy, Wm. A. Wheaton, E. T. Young, G. Neugebauer, S. Wachter, P. G. Pérez-González, D. T. Frayer, F. R. Marleau	 Abstract: We present the stellar calibrator sample and the conversion from instrumental to physical units for the 24 micron channel of the Multiband Imaging Photometer for Spitzer (MIPS). The primary calibrators are A stars, and the calibration factor based on those stars is 4.54*10^{-2} MJy sr^{-1} (DN/s)^{-1}, with a nominal uncertainty of 2%. We discuss the data-reduction procedures required to attain this accuracy; without these procdures, the calibration factor obtained using the automated pipeline at the Spitzer Science Center is 1.6% +/- 0.6% lower. We extend this work to predict 24 micron flux densities for a sample of 238 stars which covers a larger range of flux densities and spectral types. We present a total of 348 measurements of 141 stars at 24 micron. This sample covers a factor of ~460 in 24 micron flux density, from 8.6 mJy up to 4.0 Jy. We show that the calibration is linear over that range with respect to target flux and background level. The calibration is based on observations made using 3-second exposures; a preliminary analysis shows that the calibration factor may be 1% and 2% lower for 10- and 30-second exposures, respectively. We also demonstrate that the calibration is very stable: over the course of the mission, repeated measurements of our routine calibrator, HD 159330, show a root-mean-square scatter of only 0.4%. Finally, we show that the point spread function (PSF) is well measured and allows us to calibrate extended sources accurately; Infrared Astronomy Satellite (IRAS) and MIPS measurements of a sample of nearby galaxies are identical within the uncertainties. 
0704.02196	Absolute Calibration and Characterization of the Multiband Imaging  Photometer for Spitzer. II. 70 micron Imaging	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Karl D. Gordon, Charles W. Engelbracht, Dario Fadda, John Stansberry, Stefanie Wachter, Dave T. Frayer, George Rieke, Alberto Noriega-Crespo, William B. Latter, Erick Young, Gerry Neugebauer, Zoltan Balog, Herve Dole, Eiichi Egami, Dean Hines, Doug Kelly, Francine Marleau, Karl Misselt, Jane Morrison, Pablo Perez-Gonzalez, Jeonghee Rho, Wm. A. Wheaton	 Abstract: The absolute calibration and characterization of the Multiband Imaging Photometer for Spitzer (MIPS) 70 micron coarse- and fine-scale imaging modes are presented based on over 2.5 years of observations. Accurate photometry (especially for faint sources) requires two simple processing steps beyond the standard data reduction to remove long-term detector transients. Point spread function (PSF) fitting photometry is found to give more accurate flux densities than aperture photometry. Based on the PSF fitting photometry, the calibration factor shows no strong trend with flux density, background, spectral type, exposure time, or time since anneals. The coarse-scale calibration sample includes observations of stars with flux densities from 22 mJy to 17 Jy, on backgrounds from 4 to 26 MJy sr^-1, and with spectral types from B to M. The coarse-scale calibration is 702 +/- 35 MJy sr^-1 MIPS70^-1 (5% uncertainty) and is based on measurements of 66 stars. The instrumental units of the MIPS 70 micron coarse- and fine-scale imaging modes are called MIPS70 and MIPS70F, respectively. The photometric repeatability is calculated to be 4.5% from two stars measured during every MIPS campaign and includes variations on all time scales probed. The preliminary fine-scale calibration factor is 2894 +/- 294 MJy sr^-1 MIPS70F^-1 (10% uncertainty) based on 10 stars. The uncertainty in the coarse- and fine-scale calibration factors are dominated by the 4.5% photometric repeatability and the small sample size, respectively. The 5-sigma, 500 s sensitivity of the coarse-scale observations is 6-8 mJy. This work shows that the MIPS 70 micron array produces accurate, well calibrated photometry and validates the MIPS 70 micron operating strategy, especially the use of frequent stimulator flashes to track the changing responsivities of the Ge:Ga detectors. 
0704.02197	Excited states of the helium-antihydrogen system	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:V. Sharipov, L. Labzowsky, G. Plunien	 Abstract: Potential energy curves for excited leptonic states of the helium-antihydrogen system are calculated within Ritz' variational approach. An explicitly correlated ansatz for the leptonic wave function is employed describing accurately the motion of the leptons (two electrons and positron) in the field of the helium nucleus and of the antiproton with arbitrary orbital angular momentum projection $\Lambda$ onto the internuclear axis. Results for $\Lambda$=0, 1 and 30 are presented. For quasibound states with large values of $\Lambda$ and rotational quantum numbers $J>\Lambda$ no annihilation and rearrangement decay channels occur, i. e. they are metastable. 
0704.02198	Braneworld Cosmology	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:James M. Cline	 Abstract: A brief review of the field of braneworld cosmology, from its inception with the large extra dimension scenario, to aspects of cosmology in warped extra dimensions, including the RS-I and RS-II models, braneworld inflation, the Goldberger-Wise mechanism, mirage cosmology, the radion-induced phase transition in RS-I, possible gravity wave signals, and the DGP model. 
0704.02199	Equilibrium states for interval maps: the potential $-t\log |Df|$	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Henk Bruin, Mike Todd	 Abstract: Let $f:I \to I$ be a $C^2$ multimodal interval map satisfying polynomial growth of the derivatives along critical orbits. We prove the existence and uniqueness of equilibrium states for the potential $\phi_t:x\mapsto -t\log|Df(x)|$ for $t$ close to 1, and also that the pressure function $t \mapsto P(\phi_t)$ is analytic on an appropriate interval near $t = 1$. 
0704.02200	Boolean network model predicts cell cycle sequence of fission yeast	Molecular Networks (q-bio.MN)	Authors:Maria I. Davidich, Stefan Bornholdt	 Abstract: A Boolean network model of the cell-cycle regulatory network of fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces Pombe) is constructed solely on the basis of the known biochemical interaction topology. Simulating the model in the computer, faithfully reproduces the known sequence of regulatory activity patterns along the cell cycle of the living cell. Contrary to existing differential equation models, no parameters enter the model except the structure of the regulatory circuitry. The dynamical properties of the model indicate that the biological dynamical sequence is robustly implemented in the regulatory network, with the biological stationary state G1 corresponding to the dominant attractor in state space, and with the biological regulatory sequence being a strongly attractive trajectory. Comparing the fission yeast cell-cycle model to a similar model of the corresponding network in S. cerevisiae, a remarkable difference in circuitry, as well as dynamics is observed. While the latter operates in a strongly damped mode, driven by external excitation, the S. pombe network represents an auto-excited system with external damping. 
0704.02201	Arabic Speech Recognition System using CMU-Sphinx4	Computation and Language (cs.CL)	Authors:H. Satori, M. Harti, N. Chenfour	 Abstract: In this paper we present the creation of an Arabic version of Automated Speech Recognition System (ASR). This system is based on the open source Sphinx-4, from the Carnegie Mellon University. Which is a speech recognition system based on discrete hidden Markov models (HMMs). We investigate the changes that must be made to the model to adapt Arabic voice recognition. Keywords: Speech recognition, Acoustic model, Arabic language, HMMs, CMUSphinx-4, Artificial intelligence. 
0704.02202	Non-adiabatic Effects in the Dissociation of Oxygen Molecules at the  Al(111) Surface	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Jorg Behler, Karten Reuter, Matthias Scheffler	 Abstract: The measured low initial sticking probability of oxygen molecules at the Al(111) surface that had puzzled the field for many years was recently explained in a non-adiabatic picture invoking spin-selection rules [J. Behler et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 036104 (2005)]. These selection rules tend to conserve the initial spin-triplet character of the free O2 molecule during the molecule's approach to the surface. A new locally-constrained density-functional theory approach gave access to the corresponding potential-energy surface (PES) seen by such an impinging spin-triplet molecule and indicated barriers to dissociation which reduce the sticking probability. Here, we further substantiate this non-adiabatic picture by providing a detailed account of the employed approach. Building on the previous work, we focus in particular on inaccuracies in present-day exchange-correlation functionals. Our analysis shows that small quantitative differences in the spin-triplet constrained PES obtained with different gradient-corrected functionals have a noticeable effect on the lowest kinetic energy part of the resulting sticking curve. 
0704.02203	On Abelian Difference Sets with Parameters of 3-dimensional Projective  Geometries	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Kevin Jennings	 Abstract: A difference set is said to have classical parameters if $ (v,k, \lambda) = (\frac{q^d-1}{q-1}, \frac{q^{d-1}-1}{q-1}, \frac{q^{d-2}-1}{q-1}).$ The case $d=3$ corresponds to planar difference sets. We focus here on the family of abelian difference sets with $d=4$. The only known examples of such difference sets correspond to the projective geometries $PG(3,q)$. We consider an arbitrary difference set with the parameters of $PG(3,q)$ in an abelian group and establish constraints on its structure. In particular, we discern embedded substructures. 
0704.02204	The Differential Rotation of Kappa1 Ceti as Observed by MOST	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Gordon A.H. Walker, Bryce Croll, Rainer Kuschnig, Andrew Walker, Slavek M. Rucinski, Jaymie M. Matthews, David B. Guenther, Anthony F.J. Moffat, Dimitar Sasselov, Werner W. Weiss	 Abstract: We first reported evidence for differential rotation of Kappa1 Ceti in Paper I. In this paper we demonstrate that the differential rotation pattern closely matches that for the Sun. This result is based on additional MOST (Microvariability & Oscillations of STars) observations in 2004 and 2005, to complement the 2003 observations discussed in Paper I. Using StarSpotz, a program developed specifically to analyze MOST photometry, we have solved for k, the differential rotation coefficient, and P_{EQ}, the equatorial rotation period using the light curves from all three years. The spots range in latitude from 10 to 75 degrees and k = 0.090^{+0.006}_{-0.005} -- less than the solar value but consistent with the younger age of the star. k is also well constrained by the independent spectroscopic estimate of vsini. We demonstrate independently that the pattern of differential rotation with latitude in fact conforms to solar. Details are given of the parallel tempering formalism used in finding the most robust solution which gives P_{EQ} = 8.77^{+0.03}_{-0.04} days -- smaller than that usually adopted, implying an age < 750 My. Our values of P_{EQ} and k can explain the range of rotation periods determined by others by spots or activity at a variety of latitudes. Historically, Ca II activity seems to occur consistently between latitudes 50 and 60 degrees which might indicate a permanent magnetic feature. Knowledge of k and P_{EQ} are key to understanding the dynamo mechanism and rotation structure in the convective zone as well assessing age for solar-type stars. We recently published values of k and P_{EQ} for epsilon Eri based on MOST photometry and expect to analyze MOST light curves for several more spotted, solar-type stars. 
0704.02205	Vector mesons from AdS/TC to the LHC	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Maurizio Piai	 Abstract: With the use of the AdS/CFT dictionary, a five-dimensional effective description of dynamical electro-weak symmetry breaking with walking behavior is constructed. The minimal model contains only two new parameters, the confinement scale and the effective coupling of the new strong sector. This parameter space is restricted by the precision electro-weak constraints and by the requirement that the five-dimensional coupling be perturbative (corresponding to the large-N regime in four-dimensional language). The lightest observable new states are a set of four nearly degenerate spin-1 states with the same quantum numbers as the standard-model electro-weak gauge bosons, and masses in the few TeV range. Their decay rate is dominated by two-fermion final states. The number of pp -> mu mu and pp -> mu nu events is studied as a function of the LHC integrated luminosity and of the two free parameters. Discovery at the LHC is possible over a significant part of the allowed parameter space up to masses of 4 TeV already with 10/fm of integrated luminosity. 
0704.02206	Motives for perfect PAC fields with pro-cyclic Galois group	Logic (math.LO)	Authors:Immanuel Halupczok	 Abstract: Denef and Loeser defined a map from the Grothendieck ring of sets definable in pseudo-finite fields to the Grothendieck ring of Chow motives, thus enabling to apply any cohomological invariant to these sets. We generalize this to perfect, pseudo algebraically closed fields with pro-cyclic Galois group. In addition, we define some maps between different Grothendieck rings of definable sets which provide additional information, not contained in the associated motive. In particular we infer that the map of Denef-Loeser is not injective. 
0704.02207	Adjoint Functors and Heteromorphisms	Category Theory (math.CT)	Authors:David Ellerman	 Abstract: Category theory has foundational importance because it provides conceptual lenses to characterize what is important in mathematics. Originally the main lenses were universal mapping properties and natural transformations. In recent decades, the notion of adjoint functors has moved to center-stage as category theory's primary tool to characterize what is important in mathematics. Our focus here is to present a theory of adjoint functors. The basis for the theory is laid by first showing that the object-to-object "heteromorphisms" between the objects of different categories (e.g., insertion of generators as a set to group map) can be rigorously treated within category theory. The heteromorphic theory shows that all adjunctions arise from the birepresentations of the heteromorphisms between the objects of different categories. 
0704.02208	Factor Analysis and Alternating Minimization	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Lorenzo Finesso, Peter Spreij	 Abstract: In this paper we make a first attempt at understanding how to build an optimal approximate normal factor analysis model. The criterion we have chosen to evaluate the distance between different models is the I-divergence between the corresponding normal laws. The algorithm that we propose for the construction of the best approximation is of an the alternating minimization kind. 
0704.02209	Rotational Widths for Use in the Tully-Fisher Relation. II. The Impact  of Surface Brightness	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Barbara Catinella, Martha P. Haynes, Riccardo Giovanelli	 Abstract: Using a large sample of spiral galaxies for which 21 cm single-dish and/or long-slit optical spectra are available, we make a detailed comparison between various estimates of rotational widths. Different optical width estimators are considered and their limitations discussed, with emphasis on biases associated with rotation curve properties (shape and extent) and disk central surface brightness. The best match with HI rotational velocities is obtained with Polyex widths, which are measured at the optical radius (encompassing a fixed fraction of the total light of the galaxy) from a model fit to the rotation curve. In contrast with Polyex widths, optical rotational velocities measured at 2.15 disk scale lengths r_d deviate from HI widths by an amount that correlates with the central surface brightness of the disk. This bias occurs because the rotation curves of galaxies are in general still rising at 2.15 r_d, and the fraction of total mass contained within this radius decreases with increasing disk surface brightness. Statistical corrections, parameterized by the radial extent of the observed rotation curve, are provided to reduce Polyex and HI width measurements into a homogeneous system. This yields a single robust estimate of rotational velocity to be used for applications of disk scaling relations. 
0704.02210	First Constraints on Source Counts at 350 Microns	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Sophia A. Khan, Richard A. Shafer, Stephen Serjeant, S. P.Willner, Chris P. Pearson, Dominic J. Benford, Johannes G. Staguhn, S. Harvey Moseley, Timothy J. Sumner, Matthew L. N. Ashby, Colin K. Borys, Pierre Chanial, David L. Clements, C. Darren Dowell, Eli Dwek, Giovanni G. Fazio, Attila Kovács, Emeric Le Floc'h, Robert F.Silverberg	 Abstract: We have imaged a $\sim$6 arcminute$^2$ region in the Bo\"otes Deep Field using the 350 $\mu$m-optimised second generation Submillimeter High Angular Resolution Camera (SHARC II), achieving a peak 1$\sigma$ sensitivity of $\sim$5 mJy. We detect three sources above 3$\sigma$, and determine a spurious source detection rate of 1.09 in our maps. In the absence of $5\sigma$ detections, we rely on deep 24 $\mu$m and 20 cm imaging to deduce which sources are most likely to be genuine, giving two real sources. From this we derive an integral source count of 0.84$^{+1.39}_{-0.61}$ sources arcmin$^{-2}$ at $S>13$ mJy, which is consistent with 350 $\mu$m source count models that have an IR-luminous galaxy population evolving with redshift. We use these constraints to consider the future for ground-based short-submillimetre surveys. 
0704.02211	Electronic Transport in the Oxygen Deficient Ferromagnetic  Semiconducting TiO$_{2-δ}$	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Soack Dae Yoon, Vincent G. Harris, Carmine Vittoria, Allan Widom	 Abstract: TiO$_{2-\delta}$ films were deposited on (100) Lanthanum aluminates LaAlO$_{3}$ substrates at a very low oxygen chamber pressure $P\approx 0.3$ mtorr employing a pulsed laser ablation deposition technique. In previous work, it was established that the oxygen deficiency in these films induced ferromagnetism. In this work it is demonstrated that this same oxygen deficiency also gives rise to semiconductor titanium ion impurity donor energy levels. Transport resistivity measurements in thin films of TiO$_{2-\delta}$ are presented as a function of temperature and magnetic field. Magneto- and Hall- resistivity is explained in terms of electronic excitations from the titanium ion donor levels into the conduction band. 
0704.02212	Minimax State Observation in Linear One Dimensional 2-Point Boundary  Value Problems	Optimization and Control (math.OC)	Authors:Serhiy Zhuk, Serhiy Demidenko, Alexander Nakonechniy	 Abstract: In this paper we study observation problem for linear 2-point BVP Dx=Bf assuming that information about system input f and random noise \eta in system state observation model y=Hx+\eta$ is incomplete (f and M\eta\eta' are some arbitrary elements of given sets). A criterion of guaranteed (minimax) estimation error finiteness is proposed. Representations of minimax estimations are obtained in terms of 2-point BVP solutions. It is proved that in general case we can only estimate a projection of system state onto some linear manifold $F$. In particular, $F=L_2$ if $dim N(D H) = 0$. Also we propose a procedure which decides if given linear functional belongs to $F$. 
0704.02213	From Lie Theory to Deformation Theory and Quantization	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Lucian M. Ionescu	 Abstract: Deformation Theory is a natural generalization of Lie Theory, from Lie groups and their linearization, Lie algebras, to differential graded Lie algebras and their higher order deformations, quantum groups. The article focuses on two basic constructions of deformation theory: the universal solution of Maurer-Cartan Equation (MCE), which plays the role of the exponential of Lie Theory, and its inverse, the Kuranishi functor, as the logarithm. The deformation functor is the gauge reduction of MCE, corresponding to a Hodge decomposition associated to the strong deformation retract data. The above comparison with Lie Theory leads to a better understanding of Deformation Theory and its applications, e.g. the relation between quantization and Connes-Kreimer renormalization, quantum doubles and Birkhoff decomposition. 
0704.02214	The Picard group of $M_{1,1}$	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:William Fulton, Martin Olsson	 Abstract: We compute the Picard group of the moduli stack of elliptic curves and its canonical compactification over general base schemes. 
0704.02215	Impact of spin-orbit coupling on quantum Hall nematic phases	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:M. J. Manfra, R. de Picciotto, Z. Jiang, S. H. Simon, L. N. Pfeiffer, K. W. West, A. M. Sergent	 Abstract: Anisotropic charge transport is observed in a two-dimensional (2D) hole system in a perpendicular magnetic field at filling factors nu=7/2, nu=11/2, and nu=13/2 at low temperature. In stark contrast, the transport at nu=9/2 is isotropic for all temperatures. Isotropic hole transport at nu=7/2 is restored for sufficiently low 2D densities or an asymmetric confining potential. The density and symmetry dependences of the observed anisotropies suggest that strong spin-orbit coupling in the hole system contributes to the unusual transport behavior. 
0704.02216	Maximally Sparse Polynomials have Solid Amoebas	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Mounir Nisse	 Abstract: Let $f$ be an ordinary polynomial in $\mathbb{C}[z_1,..., z_n]$ with no negative exponents and with no factor of the form $z_1^{\alpha_1}... z_n^{\alpha_n}$ where $\alpha_i$ are non zero natural integer. If we assume in addicting that $f$ is maximally sparse polynomial (that its support is equal to the set of vertices of its Newton polytope), then a complement component of the amoeba $\mathscr{A}_f$ in $\mathbb{R}^n$ of the algebraic hypersurface $V_f\subset (\mathbb{C}^*)^n$ defined by $f$, has order lying in the support of $f$, which means that $\mathscr{A}_f$ is solid. This gives an affirmative answer to Passare and Rullg\aa rd question in [PR2-01]. 
0704.02217	Analysis of the Effect of a Mean Velocity Field on Mean Field Dynamo	Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)	Authors:Alejandra Kandus	 Abstract: We study semi-analytically and in a consistent manner, the generation of a mean velocity field $\bar{\mathbf{U}}$ by helical MHD turbulence, and the effect that this field can have on a Mean Field Dynamo. Assuming a prescribed, maximally helical small scale velocity field, we show that large scale flows can be generated in MHD turbulent flows, via small scale Lorentz force. These flows back-react on the mean electromotive force of a Mean Field Dynamo through new terms, leaving the original $\alpha $ and $\beta $ terms explicitly unmodified. Cross-helicity plays the key role in interconnecting all the effects. In the minimal $\tau$ closure that we chose to work with, the effects are stronger for large relaxation times. 
0704.02218	On the moduli space of semilocal strings and lumps	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Minoru Eto, Jarah Evslin, Kenichi Konishi, Giacomo Marmorini, Muneto Nitta, Keisuke Ohashi, Walter Vinci, Naoto Yokoi	 Abstract: We study BPS non-abelian semilocal vortices in U(Nc) gauge theory with Nf flavors, Nf > Nc, in the Higgs phase. The moduli space for arbitrary winding number is described using the moduli matrix formalism. We find a relation between the moduli spaces of the semilocal vortices in a Seiberg-like dual pairs of theories, U(Nc) and U(Nf-Nc). They are two alternative regularizations of a "parent" non-Hausdorff space, which tend to the same moduli space of sigma-model lumps in the infinite gauge coupling limits. We examine the normalizability of the zero-modes and find the somewhat surprising phenomenon that the number of normalizable zero-modes, dynamical fields in the effective action, depends on the point of the moduli space we are considering. We find, in the lump limit, an effective action on the vortex worldsheet, which we compare to that found by Shifman and Yung. 
0704.02219	Pseudo-Hermiticity of an Exactly Solvable Two-Dimensional Model	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:F. Cannata, M.V. Ioffe, D.N. Nishnianidze	 Abstract: We study a two-dimensional exactly solvable non-Hermitian $PT-$non-symmetric quantum model with real spectrum, which is not amenable to separation of variables, by supersymmetrical methods. Here we focus attention on the property of pseudo-Hermiticity, biorthogonal expansion and pseudo-metric operator. To our knowledge this is the first time that pseudo-Hermiticity is realized explicitly for a nontrivial two-dimensional case. It is shown that the Hamiltonian of the model is not diagonalizable. 
0704.02220	Parent Stars of Extrasolar Planets. VIII. Chemical Abundances for 18  Elements in 31 Stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Guillermo Gonzalez, Chris Laws	 Abstract: We present the results of detailed spectroscopic abundance analyses for 18 elements in 31 nearby stars with planets. The resulting abundances are combined with other similar studies of nearby stars with planets and compared to a sample of nearby stars without detected planets. We find some evidence for abundance differences between these two samples for Al, Si and Ti. Some of our results are in conflict with a recent study of stars with planets in the SPOCS database. We encourage continued study of the abundance patterns of stars with planets to resolve these discrepancies. 
0704.02221	Observation of the Density Minimum in Deeply Supercooled Confined Water	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Dazhi Liu, Yang Zhang, Chia-Cheng Chen, Chung-Yuan Mou, Peter H Poole, Sow-Hsin Chen	 Abstract: Small angle neutron scattering (SANS) is used to measure the density of heavy water contained in 1-D cylindrical pores of mesoporous silica material MCM-41-S-15, with pores of diameter of 15+-1 A. In these pores the homogenous nucleation process of bulk water at 235 K does not occur and the liquid can be supercooled down to at least 160 K. The analysis of SANS data allows us to determine the absolute value of the density of D2O as a function of temperature. We observe a density minimum at 210+-5 K with a value of 1.041+-0.003 g/cm3. We show that the results are consistent with the predictions of molecular dynamics simulations of supercooled bulk water. This is the first experimental report of the existence of the density minimum in supercooled water. 
0704.02222	Marginal deformations in string field theory	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Ehud Fuchs, Michael Kroyter, Robertus Potting	 Abstract: We describe a method for obtaining analytic solutions corresponding to exact marginal deformations in open bosonic string field theory. For the photon marginal deformation we have an explicit analytic solution to all orders. Our construction is based on a pure gauge solution where the gauge field is not in the Hilbert space. We show that the solution itself is nevertheless perfectly regular. We study its gauge transformations and calculate some coefficients explicitly. Finally, we discuss how our method can be implemented for other marginal deformations. 
0704.02223	Whitehead's Trilogy and the Curvature of Spacetime	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:A. John Coleman	 Abstract: My object in the present paper is to: (1) introduce physicists to the life and work of Whitehead; (2) outline the content of his book "The Principle of Relativity"; (3) present Whitehead's basic criticism of the General Theory of Relativity which, to my mind, has never been rebutted or properly appreciated, even by GTR specialists; (4) propose a significant relevant research problem; and (5) summarize some of the rather radical implications of the acceptance of Whitehead's observations, including that spacetime is not curved. 
0704.02224	Non-Abelian Chern-Simons Vortices	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:G. S. Lozano, D. Marques, E. F. Moreno, F. A. Schaposnik	 Abstract: We consider the bosonic sector of a N=2 supersymmetric Chern-Simons-Higgs theory in 2+1 dimensions. The gauge group is U(1)xU(N) and has N_f flavors of fundamental matter fields. The model supports non-Abelian (axially symmetric) vortices when N_f\geq N, which have internal (orientational) moduli. When N_f > N, the solutions acquire additional collective coordinates parameterizing their transverse size. We solve the BPS equations numerically and obtain local (N_f = N) and semi-local (N_f > N) string solutions. 
0704.02225	Dissipation in graphene and nanotube resonators	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:C. Seoanez, F. Guinea, A. H. Castro Neto	 Abstract: Different damping mechanisms in graphene nanoresonators are studied: charges in the substrate, ohmic losses in the substrate and the graphene sheet, breaking and healing of surface bonds (Velcro effect), two level systems, attachment losses, and thermoelastic losses. We find that, for realistic structures and contrary to semiconductor resonators, dissipation is dominated by ohmic losses in the graphene layer and metallic gate. An extension of this study to carbon nanotube-based resonators is presented. 
0704.02226	The Luminosity Distribution of Globular Clusters in Dwarf Galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Sidney van den Bergh	 Abstract: The majority of the globular clusters associated with the Sagittarius dwarf galaxy are faint. In this respect it differs significantly from the globular cluster systems surrounding typical giant galaxies. The observation that most of globular clusters in the outer halo of the Galaxy are also sub-luminous may be understood by assuming that these clusters once also belonged to faint cluster-rich dwarf systems that were subsequently captured and destroyed by the Milky Way System. 
0704.02227	Front propagation into unstable metal nanowires	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:J. Bürki	 Abstract: Long, cylindrical metal nanowires have recently been observed to form and be stable for seconds at a time at room temperature. Their stability and structural dynamics is well described by a continuum model, the nanoscale free-electron model, which predicts cylinders in certain intervals of radius to be linearly unstable. In this paper, I study how a small, localized perturbation of such an unstable wire grows exponentially and propagates along the wire with a well-defined front. The front is found to be pulled, and forms a coherent pattern behind it. It is well described by a linear marginal stability analysis of front propagation into an unstable state. In some cases, nonlinearities of the wire dynamics are found to trigger an invasive mode that pushes the front. Experimental procedures that could lead to the observation of this phenomenon are suggested. 
0704.02228	The Density Profile of Local Ellipticals as Violently Relaxed,  Collisionless, Dissipationless Systems	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Eduard Salvador-Solé, Sinue Serra, Rosa Domínguez-Tenreiro, Alberto Manrique	 Abstract: In a series of recent papers, a new formalism has been developed that explains the inner structure of dark matter halos as collisionless, dissipationless systems assembled through mergers and accretion at the typical cosmological rate. Nearby ellipticals are also collisionless, dissipationless systems assembling their mass through mergers, but contrarily to the former structures they do not continuously accrete external matter because they are shielded by their host halos. Here we explore the idea that the infall of their own matter ejected within the halo on the occasion of a violent merger can play a role similar to external accretion in halos. The predicted stellar mass density profile fits the observed one, and the empirical total mass density profile is also recovered. 
0704.02229	Conifold singularities, resumming instantons and non-perturbative mirror  symmetry	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Frank Saueressig, Stefan Vandoren	 Abstract: We determine the instanton corrected hypermultiplet moduli space in type IIB compactifications near a Calabi-Yau conifold point where the size of a two-cycle shrinks to zero. We show that D1-instantons resolve the conifold singularity caused by worldsheet instantons. Furthermore, by resumming the instanton series, we reproduce exactly the results obtained by Ooguri and Vafa on the type IIA side, where membrane instantons correct the hypermultiplet moduli space. Our calculations therefore establish that mirror symmetry holds non-perturbatively in the string coupling. 
0704.02230	Strings on AdS_2 and the High-Energy Limit of Noncritical M-Theory	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Petr Horava, Cynthia A. Keeler	 Abstract: Noncritical M-theory in 2+1 dimensions has been defined as a double-scaling limit of a nonrelativistic Fermi liquid on a flat two-dimensional plane. Here we study this noncritical M-theory in the limit of high energies, analogous to the \alpha'\to\infty limit of string theory. In the related case of two-dimensional Type 0A strings, it has been argued that the conformal \alpha'\to\infty limit leads to AdS_2 with a propagating fermion whose mass is set by the value of the RR flux. Here we provide evidence that in the high-energy limit, the natural ground state of noncritical M-theory similarly describes the AdS_2\times S^1 spacetime, with a massless propagating fermion. We argue that the spacetime effective theory in this background is captured by a topological higher-spin extension of conformal Chern-Simons gravity in 2+1 dimensions, consistently coupled to a massless Dirac field. Intriguingly, the two-dimensional plane populated by the original nonrelativistic fermions is essentially the twistor space associated with the symmetry group of the AdS_2\times S^1 spacetime; thus, at least in the high-energy limit, noncritical M-theory can be nonperturbatively described as a "Fermi liquid on twistor space." 
0704.02231	Pomeranchuk instability: symmetry breaking and experimental signatures	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:J. Quintanilla, C. Hooley, B. J. Powell, A. J. Schofield, M. Haque	 Abstract: We discuss the emergence of symmetry-breaking {\it via} the Pomeranchuk instability from interactions that respect the underlying point-group symmetry. We use a variational mean-field theory to consider a 2D continuum and a square lattice. We describe two experimental signatures: a symmetry-breaking pattern of Friedel oscillations around an impurity; and a structural transition. 
0704.02232	Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking as a Basis of Particle Mass	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Chris Quigg	 Abstract: Electroweak theory joins electromagnetism with the weak force in a single quantum field theory, ascribing the two fundamental interactions--so different in their manifestations--to a common symmetry principle. How the electroweak gauge symmetry is hidden is one of the most urgent and challenging questions facing particle physics. The provisional answer incorporated in the "standard model" of particle physics was formulated in the 1960s by Higgs, by Brout & Englert, and by Guralnik, Hagen & Kibble: The agent of electroweak symmetry breaking is an elementary scalar field whose self-interactions select a vacuum state in which the full electroweak symmetry is hidden, leaving a residual phase symmetry of electromagnetism. By analogy with the Meissner effect of the superconducting phase transition, the Higgs mechanism, as it is commonly known, confers masses on the weak force carriers W and Z. It also opens the door to masses for the quarks and leptons, and shapes the world around us. It is a good story--though an incomplete story--and we do not know how much of the story is true. Experiments that explore the Fermi scale (the energy regime around 1 TeV) during the next decade will put the electroweak theory to decisive test, and may uncover new elements needed to construct a more satisfying completion of the electroweak theory. The aim of this article is to set the stage by reporting what we know and what we need to know, and to set some "Big Questions" that will guide our explorations. 
0704.02233	Bubbling AdS and droplet descriptions of BPS geometries in IIB  supergravity	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Bin Chen, Sera Cremonini, Aristomenis Donos, Feng-Li Lin, Hai Lin, James T. Liu, Diana Vaman, Wen-Yu Wen	 Abstract: This paper focuses on supergravity duals of BPS states in N=4 super Yang-Mills. In order to describe these duals, we begin with a sequence of breathing mode reductions of IIB supergravity: first on S^3, then S^3 x S^1, and finally on S^3 x S^1 x CP^1. We then follow with a complete supersymmetry analysis, yielding 1/8, 1/4 and 1/2 BPS configurations, respectively (where in the last step we take the Hopf fibration of S^3). The 1/8 BPS geometries, which have an S^3 isometry and are time-fibered over a six-dimensional base, are determined by solving a non-linear equation for the Kahler metric on the base. Similarly, the 1/4 BPS configurations have an S^3 x S^1 isometry and a four-dimensional base, whose Kahler metric obeys another non-linear, Monge-Ampere type equation. Despite the non-linearity of the problem, we develop a universal bubbling AdS description of these geometries by focusing on the boundary conditions which ensure their regularity. In the 1/8 BPS case, we find that the S^3 cycle shrinks to zero size on a five-dimensional locus inside the six-dimensional base. Enforcing regularity of the full solution requires that the interior of a smooth, generally disconnected five-dimensional surface be removed from the base. The AdS_5 x S^5 ground state corresponds to excising the interior of an S^5, while the 1/8 BPS excitations correspond to deformations (including topology change) of the S^5 and/or the excision of additional droplets from the base. In the case of 1/4 BPS configurations, by enforcing regularity conditions, we identify three-dimensional surfaces inside the four-dimensional base which separate the regions where the S^3 shrinks to zero size from those where the S^1 shrinks. 
0704.02234	Zero-energy states and fragmentation of spin in the easy-plane  antiferromagnet on a honeycomb lattice	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Igor F. Herbut	 Abstract: The core of the vortex in the Neel order parameter for an easy-plane antiferromagnet on honeycomb lattice is demonstrated to bind two zero-energy states. Remarkably, a single electron occupying this mid-gap band has its spin fragmented between the two sublattices: Whereas it yields a vanishing total magnetization it shows a finite Neel order, orthogonal to the one of the assumed background. The requisite easy-plane anisotropy may be introduced by a magnetic field parallel to the graphene layer, for example. The results are relevant for spin-1/2 fermions on graphene's or optical honeycomb lattice, in the strongly interacting regime. 
0704.02235	Swift observations of GRB 060614: an anomalous burst with a well behaved  afterglow	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:V. Mangano, S.T. Holland, D. Malesani, E. Troja, G. Chincarini, B. Zhang, V. La Parola, P.J. Brown, D.N. Burrows, S. Campana, M. Capalbi, G. Cusumano, M. Della Valle, N. Gehrels, P. Giommi, D. Grupe, C. Guidorzi, T. Mineo, A. Moretti, J.P. Osborne, S.B. Pandey, M. Perri, P. Romano, P.W.A. Roming, G. Tagliaferri	 Abstract: GRB 060614 is a remarkable GRB observed by Swift with puzzling properties, which challenge current progenitor models. The lack of any bright SN down to very strict limits and the vanishing spectral lags are typical of short GRBs, strikingly at odds with the long (102s) duration of this event. Here we present spectral and temporal analysis of the Swift observations. We show that the burst presents standard optical, UV and X-ray afterglows. An achromatic break is observed simultaneously in optical and X-rays, at a time consistent with the break in the R-band light curve measured by the VLT. The achromatic behaviour and the consistent post-break decay slopes make GRB 060614 one of the best examples of a jet break for a Swift burst. The optical, UV and X-rays afterglow light curves have also an earlier break at ~30 ks. In the optical, there is strong spectral evolution around this break, suggesting the passage of a break frequency through the optical/UV band. The very blue spectrum at early times and the trend in the light curves (rising at low frequencies, and decaying at higher energies) suggest this may be the injection frequency. The early X-ray light curve is well interpreted as the X-ray counterpart of the burst extended emission. Spectral analysis of BAT/XRT data in the 80s overlap time show that the Ep of the burst has decreased to as low as 8keV at the beginning of the XRT observation. The Ep continues to decrease through the XRT energy band and exits it at about 500s after the trigger. The average Ep of the burst is likely < 24 keV but larger than 8 keV. The initial peak observed by BAT is however distinctly harder than the rest with Ep ~300 keV as measured by Konus Wind. Considering the time-averaged spectral properties, GRB 060614 is consistent with the Eiso-Ep_rest, Egamma-Ep_rest, and Liso-Ep correlations. 
0704.02236	Squashed entanglement for multipartite states and entanglement measures  based on the mixed convex roof	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Dong Yang, Karol Horodecki, Michal Horodecki, Pawel Horodecki, Jonathan Oppenheim, Wei Song	 Abstract: New measures of multipartite entanglement are constructed based on two definitions of multipartite information and different methods of optimizing over extensions of the states. One is a generalization of the squashed entanglement where one takes the mutual information of parties conditioned on the state's extension and takes the infimum over such extensions. Additivity of the multipartite squashed entanglement is proved for both versions of the multipartite information which turn out to be related. The second one is based on taking classical extensions. This scheme is generalized, which enables to construct measures of entanglement based on the {\it mixed convex roof} of a quantity, which in contrast to the standard convex roof method involves optimization over all decompositions of a density matrix rather than just the decompositions into pure states. As one of the possible applications of these results we prove that any multipartite monotone is an upper bound on the amount of multipartite distillable key. The findings are finally related to analogous results in classical key agreement. 
0704.02237	More supersymmetric Wilson loops	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Nadav Drukker, Simone Giombi, Riccardo Ricci, Diego Trancanelli	 Abstract: We present a large new family of Wilson loop operators in N=4 supersymmetric Yang-Mills theory. For an arbitrary curve on the three dimensional sphere one can add certain scalar couplings to the Wilson loop so it preserves at least two supercharges. Some previously known loops, notably the 1/2 BPS circle, belong to this class, but we point out many more special cases which were not known before and could provide further tests of the AdS/CFT correspondence. 
0704.02238	The Habitat Segregation between Lyman Break Galaxies and Lyman alpha  Emitters around a QSO at z~5	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nobunari Kashikawa, Tetsu Kitayama, Mamoru Doi, Toru Misawa, Yutaka Komiyama, Kazuaki Ota	 Abstract: We carried out a target survey for Lyman break galaxies (LBGs) and Lyman alpha emitters (LAEs) around QSO SDSS J0211-0009 at z=4.87. The deep and wide broadband and narrowband imaging simultaneously revealed the perspective structure of these two high-z populations. The LBGs without Ly-alpha emission form a filamentary structure including the QSO, while the LAEs are distributed around the QSO but avoid it within a distance of ~4.5Mpc. On the other hand, we serendipitously discovered a protocluster with a significant concentration of LBGs and LAEs where no strongly UV ionizing source such as a QSO or radio galaxy is known to exist. In this cluster field, two populations are spatially cross-correlated with each other. The relative spatial distribution of LAEs to LBGs is in stark contrast between the QSO and the cluster fields. We also found a weak trend showing that the number counts based on Ly-alpha and UV continuum fluxes of LAEs in the QSO field are slightly lower than in the cluster field, whereas the number counts of LBGs are almost consistent with each other. The LAEs avoid the nearby region around the QSO where the local UV background radiation could be ~100 times stronger than the average for the epoch. The clustering segregation between LBGs and LAEs seen in the QSO field could be due to either enhanced early galaxy formation in an overdense environment having caused all the LAEs to evolve into LBGs, or local photoionization due to the strong UV radiation from the QSO effectively causing a deficit in low-mass galaxies like LAEs. 
0704.02239	Studying Reionization with Ly-alpha Emitters	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Matthew McQuinn, Lars Hernquist, Matias Zaldarriaga, Suvendra Dutta (Harvard-CFA)	 Abstract: We show that observations of high-redshift Ly-alpha emitters (LAEs) have the potential to provide definitive evidence for reionization in the near future. Using 200 Mpc radiative transfer simulations, we calculate the effect that patchy reionization has on the line profile, on the luminosity function, and, most interestingly, on the clustering of emitters for several realistic models of reionization. Reionization increases the measured clustering of emitters, and we show that this enhancement would be essentially impossible to attribute to anything other than reionization. Our results motivate looking for the signature of reionization in existing LAE data. We find that for stellar reionization scenarios the angular correlation function of the 58 LAEs in the Subaru Deep Field z = 6.6 photometric sample is more consistent with a fully ionized universe (mean volume ionized fraction x_i = 1) than a universe with x_i < 0.5 at >2-sigma confidence level. Measurements in the next year on Subaru will increase their z = 6.6 LAE sample by a factor of five and tighten these limits. If the clustering signature of reionization is detected in a LAE survey, a comparison with a Lyman-break or a H-alpha survey in the same field would confirm the reionization hypothesis. We discuss the optimal LAE survey specifications for detecting reionization, with reference to upcoming programs. 
0704.02240	Hydrodynamical simulations of the jet in the symbiotic star MWC 560 III.  Application to X-ray jets in symbiotic stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Matthias Stute, Raghvendra Sahai (Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology)	 Abstract: In papers I and II in this series, we presented hydrodynamical simulations of jet models with parameters representative of the symbiotic system MWC 560. These were simulations of a pulsed, initially underdense jet in a high density ambient medium. Since the pulsed emission of the jet creates internal shocks and since the jet velocity is very high, the jet bow shock and the internal shocks are heated to high temperatures and should therefore emit X-ray radiation. In this paper, we investigate in detail the X-ray properties of the jets in our models. We have focused our study on the total X-ray luminosity and its temporal variability, the resulting spectra and the spatial distribution of the emission. Temperature and density maps from our hydrodynamical simulations with radiative cooling presented in the second paper are used together with emissivities calculated with the atomic database ATOMDB. The jets in our models show extended and variable X-ray emission which can be characterized as a sum of hot and warm components with temperatures that are consistent with observations of CH Cyg and R Aqr. The X-ray spectra of our model jets show emission line features which correspond to observed features in the spectra of CH Cyg. The innermost parts of our pulsed jets show iron line emission in the 6.4 - 6.7 keV range which may explain such emission from the central source in R Aqr. We conclude that MWC 560 should be detectable with Chandra or XMM-Newton, and such X-ray observations will provide crucial for understanding jets in symbiotic stars. 
0704.02241	Why should anyone care about computing with anyons?	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Gavin K. Brennen, Jiannis K. Pachos	 Abstract: In this article we present a pedagogical introduction of the main ideas and recent advances in the area of topological quantum computation. We give an overview of the concept of anyons and their exotic statistics, present various models that exhibit topological behavior, and we establish their relation to quantum computation. Possible directions for the physical realization of topological systems and the detection of anyonic behavior are elaborated. 
0704.02242	Hydrodynamic Limit for a Particle System with degenerate rates	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Patricia Goncalves, Claudio Landim, Cristina Toninelli	 Abstract: We study the hydrodynamic limit for some conservative particle systems with degenerate rates, namely with nearest neighbor exchange rates which vanish for certain configurations. These models belong to the class of {\sl kinetically constrained lattice gases} (KCLG) which have been introduced and intensively studied in physics literature as simple models for the liquid/glass transition. Due to the degeneracy of rates for KCLG there exists {\sl blocked configurations} which do not evolve under the dynamics and in general the hyperplanes of configurations with a fixed number of particles can be decomposed into different irreducible sets. As a consequence, both the Entropy and Relative Entropy method cannot be straightforwardly applied to prove the hydrodynamic limit. In particular, some care should be put when proving the One and Two block Lemmas which guarantee local convergence to equilibrium. We show that, for initial profiles smooth enough and bounded away from zero and one, the macroscopic density profile for our KCLG evolves under the diffusive time scaling according to the porous medium equation. Then we prove the same result for more general profiles for a slightly perturbed dynamics obtained by adding jumps of the Symmetric Simple Exclusion. The role of the latter is to remove the degeneracy of rates and at the same time they are properly slowed down in order not to change the macroscopic behavior. The equilibrium fluctuations and the magnitude of the spectral gap for this perturbed model are also obtained. 
0704.02243	Post-Newtonian gravitational radiation and equations of motion via  direct integration of the relaxed Einstein equations. V. Evidence for the  strong equivalence principle to second post-Newtonian order	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Thomas Mitchell, Clifford M. Will (Washington University, St. Louis)	 Abstract: Using post-Newtonian equations of motion for fluid bodies valid to the second post-Newtonian order, we derive the equations of motion for binary systems with finite-sized, non-spinning but arbitrarily shaped bodies. In particular we study the contributions of the internal structure of the bodies (such as self-gravity) that would diverge if the size of the bodies were to shrink to zero. Using a set of virial relations accurate to the first post-Newtonian order that reflect the stationarity of each body, and redefining the masses to include 1PN and 2PN self-gravity terms, we demonstrate the complete cancellation of a class of potentially divergent, structure-dependent terms that scale as s^{-1} and s^{-5/2}, where s is the characteristic size of the bodies. This is further evidence of the Strong Equivalence Principle, and supports the use of post-Newtonian approximations to derive equations of motion for strong-field bodies such as neutron stars and black holes. This extends earlier work done by Kopeikin. 
0704.02244	Proving Regularity of the Minimal Probability of Ruin via a Game of  Stopping and Control	Portfolio Management (q-fin.PM)	Authors:Erhan Bayraktar, Virginia R. Young	 Abstract: We reveal an interesting convex duality relationship between two problems: (a) minimizing the probability of lifetime ruin when the rate of consumption is stochastic and when the individual can invest in a Black-Scholes financial market; (b) a controller-and-stopper problem, in which the controller controls the drift and volatility of a process in order to maximize a running reward based on that process, and the stopper chooses the time to stop the running reward and rewards the controller a final amount at that time. Our primary goal is to show that the minimal probability of ruin, whose stochastic representation does not have a classical form as does the utility maximization problem (i.e., the objective's dependence on the initial values of the state variables is implicit), is the unique classical solution of its Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equation, which is a non-linear boundary-value problem. We establish our goal by exploiting the convex duality relationship between (a) and (b). 
0704.02245	Fermi-liquid and Fermi surface geometry effects in propagation of low  frequency electromagnetic waves through thin metal films	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Natalya A. Zimbovskaya	 Abstract: In the present work we theoretically analyze the contribution from a transverse Fermi-liquid collective mode to the transmission of electromagnetic waves through a thin film of a clean metal in the presence of a strong external magnetic field. We show that at the appropriate Fermi surface geometry the transverse Fermi-liquid wave may appear in conduction electrons liquid at frequencies $\omega$ significantly smaller than the cyclotron frequency of charge carriers $\Omega$ provided that the mean collision frequency $\tau^{-1}$ is smaller than $\omega.$ Also, we show that in realistic metals size oscillations in the transmission coefficient associated with the Firmi-liquid mode may be observable in experiments. Under certain conditions these oscillations may predominate over the remaining size effects in the transmission coefficient. 
0704.02246	Towards experimental entanglement connection with atomic ensembles in  the single excitation regime	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:J. Laurat, C.W. Chou, H. Deng, K.S. Choi, D. Felinto, H. de Riedmatten, H.J. Kimble	 Abstract: We present a protocol for performing entanglement connection between pairs of atomic ensembles in the single excitation regime. Two pairs are prepared in an asynchronous fashion and then connected via a Bell measurement. The resulting state of the two remaining ensembles is mapped to photonic modes and a reduced density matrix is then reconstructed. Our observations confirm for the first time the creation of coherence between atomic systems that never interacted, a first step towards entanglement connection, a critical requirement for quantum networking and long distance quantum communications. 
0704.02247	Chaos and Complexity of quantum motion	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Tomaz Prosen	 Abstract: The problem of characterizing complexity of quantum dynamics - in particular of locally interacting chains of quantum particles - will be reviewed and discussed from several different perspectives: (i) stability of motion against external perturbations and decoherence, (ii) efficiency of quantum simulation in terms of classical computation and entanglement production in operator spaces, (iii) quantum transport, relaxation to equilibrium and quantum mixing, and (iv) computation of quantum dynamical entropies. Discussions of all these criteria will be confronted with the established criteria of integrability or quantum chaos, and sometimes quite surprising conclusions are found. Some conjectures and interesting open problems in ergodic theory of the quantum many problem are suggested. 
0704.02248	Hyperbolicity of Semigroup Algebras	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:E. Iwaki, S. O. Juriaans, A. C. Souza Filho	 Abstract: Let $A$ be a finite dimensional $Q-$algebra and $\Gamma subset A$ a $Z-$order. We classify those $A$ with the property that $Z^2$ does not embed in $\mathcal{U}(\Gamma)$. We call this last property the hyperbolic property. We apply this in the case that $A = KS$ a semigroup algebra with $K = Q$ or $K = Q(\sqrt{-d})$. In particular, when $KS$ is semi-simple and has no nilpotent elements, we prove that $S$ is an inverse semigroup which is the disjoint union of Higman groups and at most one cyclic group $C_n$ with $n \in \{5,8,12\}$. 
0704.02249	Dust Formation and He II 4686 emission in the Dense Shell of the  Peculiar Type Ib Supernova 2006jc	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nathan Smith, Ryan J. Foley, Alexei V. Filippenko	 Abstract: We present evidence for the formation of dust grains in an unusual Type Ib SN based on late-time spectra of SN 2006jc. The progenitor suffered an LBV-like outburst just 2 yr earlier, and we propose that the dust formation is a consequence of the SN blast wave overtaking that LBV-like shell. The key evidence for dust formation is (a) the appearance of a red/near-IR continuum source fit by 1600 K graphite grains, and (b) fading of the redshifted sides of He I emission lines, yielding progressively more asymmetric blueshifted lines as dust obscures receding material. This provides the strongest case yet for dust formation in any SN Ib/c. Both developments occurred between 51 and 75 d after peak, while other SNe observed to form dust did so after a few hundred days. Geometric considerations indicate that dust formed in the dense swept-up shell between the forward and reverse shocks, and not in the freely expanding SN ejecta. Rapid cooling leading to dust formation may have been aided by extremely high shell densities, as indicated by He I line ratios. The brief epoch of dust formation is accompanied by He II 4686 emission and enhanced X-ray emission. These clues suggest that the unusual dust formation in this object was not due to properties of the SN itself, but instead -- like most peculiarities of SN 2006jc -- was a consequence of the dense environment created by an LBV-like eruption 2 yr before the SN. 
0704.02250	Grothendieck rings of basic classical Lie superalgebras	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:A.N. Sergeev, A.P. Veselov	 Abstract: The Grothendieck rings of finite dimensional representations of the basic classical Lie superalgebras are explicitly described in terms of the corresponding generalised root systems. We show that they can be interpreted as the subrings in the weight group rings invariant under the action of certain groupoids called Weyl groupoids. 
0704.02251	Boundaries and the Casimir effect in non-commutative space-time	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Roberto Casadio, Alessandro Gruppuso, Benjamin Harms, Octavian Micu	 Abstract: We calculate modifications to the scalar Casimir force between two parallel plates due to space-time non-commutativity. We devise a heuristic approach to overcome the difficulties of describing boundaries in non-commutative theories and predict that boundary corrections are of the same order as non-commutative volume corrections. Further, both corrections have the form of more conventional finite surface effects. 
0704.02252	Negative differential conductivity in Heisenberg XXZ chain far from  equilibrium	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Tomaz Prosen	 Abstract: Negative differential conductivity is reported for the far from equilibrium quantum spin transport in the insulating regime (J_x < J_z) of finite Heisenberg XXZ spin 1/2 chains. The phenomenon is reproduced analytically for small chains of N=4 spins and further analyzed numerically, for up to N=16, using an efficient pure-state simulation with stochastic spin baths. 
0704.02253	A survey of debris trails from short-period comets	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:William T. Reach, Michael S. Kelley, Mark V. Sykes	 Abstract: We observed 34 comets using the 24 micron camera on the Spitzer Space Telescope. Each image contains the nucleus and covers at least 10^6 km of each comet's orbit. Debris trails due to mm-sized or larger particles were found along the orbits of 27 comets; 4 comets had small-particle dust tails and a viewing geometry that made debris trails impossible to distinguish; and only 3 had no debris trail despite favorable observing conditions. There are now 30 Jupiter-family comets with known debris trails, of which 22 are reported in this paper for the first time. The detection rate is >80%, indicating that debris trails are a generic feature of short-period comets. By comparison to orbital calculations for particles of a range of sizes ejected over 2 yr prior to observation, we find that particles comprising 4 debris trails are typically mm-sized while the remainder of the debris trails require particles larger than this. The lower-limit masses of the debris trails are typically 10^11 g, and the median mass loss rate is 2 kg/s. The mass-loss rate in trail particles is comparable to that inferred from OH production rates and larger than that inferred from visible-light scattering in comae. 
0704.02254	Representations of Lie algebras arising from polytopes	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:R.M. Green	 Abstract: We present an extremely elementary construction of the simple Lie algebras over the complex numbers in all of their minuscule representations, using the vertices of various polytopes. The construction itself requires no complicated combinatorics and essentially no Lie theory other than the definition of a Lie algebra; in fact, the Lie algebras themselves appear as by-products of the construction. 
0704.02255	Precise Timing of the X-ray Pulsar 1E 1207.4-5209: A Steady Neutron Star  Weakly Magnetized at Birth	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:E. V. Gotthelf, J. P. Halpern (Columbia)	 Abstract: We analyze all X-ray timing data on 1E 1207.4-5209 in supernova remnant PKS 1209-51/52 gathered in 2000-2005, and find a highly stable rotation with P=424.130451(4) ms and period derivative of (9.6 +/- 9.4)E-17 s/s. This refutes previous claims of large timing irregularities in these data. In the dipole spin-down formalism, the 2-sigma upper limit on period derivative implies an energy loss rate < 1.5E32 ergs/s, surface magnetic field strength B_p < 3.5E11 G, and characteristic age tau > 24 Myr. This tau exceeds the remnant age by 3 orders of magnitude, requiring that the pulsar was born spinning at its present period. The X-ray luminosity of 1E 1207.4-5209, L(bol) ~= 2E33 ergs/s at 2 kpc, exceeds its spin-down energy loss, implying that L(bol) derives from residual cooling, and perhaps partly from accretion of supernova debris. The upper limit on B_p is small enough to favor the electron cyclotron model for at least one of the prominent absorption lines in its soft X-ray spectrum. This is the second demonstrable case of a pulsar born spinning slowly and with a weak B-field, after PSR J1852+0040 in Kesteven 79. 
0704.02256	The Friedel oscillations in the presence of transport currents	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Anna Gorczyca, Maciej M. Maska, Marcin Mierzejewski	 Abstract: We investigate the Friedel oscillations in a nanowire coupled to two macroscopic electrodes of different potentials. We show that the wave-length of the density oscillations monotonically increases with the bias voltage, whereas the amplitude and the spatial decay exponent of the oscillations remain intact. Using the nonequilibrium Keldysh Green functions, we derive an explicit formula that describes voltage dependence of the wave-length of the Friedel oscillations. 
0704.02257	Effect of a Zeeman field on the superconductor-ferromagnet transition in  metallic grains	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:S. Schmidt, Y. Alhassid, K. Van Houcke	 Abstract: We investigate the competition between pairing correlations and ferromagnetism in small metallic grains in the presence of a Zeeman field. Our analysis is based on the universal Hamiltonian, valid in the limit of large Thouless conductance. We show that the coexistence regime of superconducting and ferromagnetic correlations can be made experimentally accessible by tuning an external Zeeman field. We compare the exact solution of the model with a mean-field theory and find that the latter cannot describe pairing correlations in the intermediate regime. We also study the occurrence of spin jumps across the phase boundary separating the superconducting and coexistence regimes. 
0704.02258	On the Hardness of Approximating Stopping and Trapping Sets in LDPC  Codes	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Andrew McGregor, Olgica Milenkovic	 Abstract: We prove that approximating the size of stopping and trapping sets in Tanner graphs of linear block codes, and more restrictively, the class of low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes, is NP-hard. The ramifications of our findings are that methods used for estimating the height of the error-floor of moderate- and long-length LDPC codes based on stopping and trapping set enumeration cannot provide accurate worst-case performance predictions. 
0704.02259	The Wiretap Channel with Feedback: Encryption over the Channel	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Lifeng Lai, Hesham El Gamal, H. Vincent Poor	 Abstract: In this work, the critical role of noisy feedback in enhancing the secrecy capacity of the wiretap channel is established. Unlike previous works, where a noiseless public discussion channel is used for feedback, the feed-forward and feedback signals share the same noisy channel in the present model. Quite interestingly, this noisy feedback model is shown to be more advantageous in the current setting. More specifically, the discrete memoryless modulo-additive channel with a full-duplex destination node is considered first, and it is shown that the judicious use of feedback increases the perfect secrecy capacity to the capacity of the source-destination channel in the absence of the wiretapper. In the achievability scheme, the feedback signal corresponds to a private key, known only to the destination. In the half-duplex scheme, a novel feedback technique that always achieves a positive perfect secrecy rate (even when the source-wiretapper channel is less noisy than the source-destination channel) is proposed. These results hinge on the modulo-additive property of the channel, which is exploited by the destination to perform encryption over the channel without revealing its key to the source. Finally, this scheme is extended to the continuous real valued modulo-$\Lambda$ channel where it is shown that the perfect secrecy capacity with feedback is also equal to the capacity in the absence of the wiretapper. 
0704.02260	Phylogenetic mixtures on a single tree can mimic a tree of another  topology	Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)	Authors:Frederick A. Matsen, Mike Steel	 Abstract: Phylogenetic mixtures model the inhomogeneous molecular evolution commonly observed in data. The performance of phylogenetic reconstruction methods where the underlying data is generated by a mixture model has stimulated considerable recent debate. Much of the controversy stems from simulations of mixture model data on a given tree topology for which reconstruction algorithms output a tree of a different topology; these findings were held up to show the shortcomings of particular tree reconstruction methods. In so doing, the underlying assumption was that mixture model data on one topology can be distinguished from data evolved on an unmixed tree of another topology given enough data and the ``correct'' method. Here we show that this assumption can be false. For biologists our results imply that, for example, the combined data from two genes whose phylogenetic trees differ only in terms of branch lengths can perfectly fit a tree of a different topology. 
0704.02261	Scaling Behaviors of Graphene Nanoribbon FETs: A Three Dimensional  Quantum Simulation Study	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Yijian Ouyang*, Youngki Yoon*, Jing Guo	 Abstract: The scaling behaviors of graphene nanoribbon (GNR) Schottky barrier field-effect transistors (SBFETs) are studied by solving the non-equilibrium Green's function (NEGF) transport equation in an atomistic basis set self-consistently with a three-dimensional Poisson equation. The armchair edge GNR channel shares similarities with a zigzag CNT, but it has a different geometry and quantum confinement boundary condition in the transverse direction. The results indicate that the I-V characteristics are ambipolar and strongly depend on the GNR width because the bandgap of the GNR is approximately inversely proportional to its width, which agrees with recent experiments. A multiple gate geometry improves immunity to short channel effects, but it offers smaller improvement than it does for Si MOSFETs in terms of the on-current and transconductance. Reducing the oxide thickness is more useful for improving transistor performance than using a high-k gate insulator. Significant increase of the minimal leakage current is observed when the channel length is scaled below 10nm because the small effective mass facilitates strong source-drain tunneling. The GNRFET, therefore, does not promise extending the ultimate scaling limit of Si MOSFETs. The intrinsic switching speed of a GNR SBFET, however, is several times faster than that of Si MOSFETs, which could lead to promising high speed electronics applications, where the large leakage of GNR SBFETs is of less concern. 
0704.02262	Irreducible representations and Artin L-functions of quasi-cyclotomic  fields	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Sunghan Bae, Yong Hu, Linsheng Yin	 Abstract: We determine all irreducible representations of primary quasi-cyclotomic fields in this paper. The methods can be applied to determine the irreducible representations of any quasi-cyclotomic field. We also compute the Artin L-functions for a class of quasi-cyclotomic fields. 
0704.02263	Nonlinearity-assisted quantum tunneling in a matter-wave interferometer	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Chaohong Lee, Elena A. Ostrovskaya, Yuri S. Kivshar	 Abstract: We investigate the {\em nonlinearity-assisted quantum tunneling} and formation of nonlinear collective excitations in a matter-wave interferometer, which is realised by the adiabatic transformation of a double-well potential into a single-well harmonic trap. In contrast to the linear quantum tunneling induced by the crossing (or avoided crossing) of neighbouring energy levels, the quantum tunneling between different nonlinear eigenstates is assisted by the nonlinear mean-field interaction. When the barrier between the wells decreases, the mean-field interaction aids quantum tunneling between the ground and excited nonlinear eigenstates. The resulting {\em non-adiabatic evolution} depends on the input states. The tunneling process leads to the generation of dark solitons, and the number of the generated dark solitons is highly sensitive to the matter-wave nonlinearity. The results of the numerical simulations of the matter-wave dynamics are successfully interpreted with a coupled-mode theory for multiple nonlinear eigenstates. 
0704.02264	Graphs with chromatic roots in the interval (1,2)	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Gordon F. Royle	 Abstract: We present an infinite family of 3-connected non-bipartite graphs with chromatic roots in the interval (1,2) thus resolving a conjecture of Jackson's in the negative. In addition, we briefly consider other graph classes that are conjectured to have no chromatic roots in (1,2). 
0704.02265	Finite-size correction and bulk hole-excitations for special case of an  open XXZ chain with nondiagonal boundary terms at roots of unity	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Rajan Murgan	 Abstract: Using our solution for the open spin-1/2 XXZ quantum spin chain with N spins and two arbitrary boundary parameters at roots of unity, the central charge and the conformal dimensions for bulk hole excitations are derived from the 1/N correction to the energy (Casimir energy). 
0704.02266	Dynamical traps and chaotic advection in a meandering jet flow	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:M.V. Budyansky, M.Yu. Uleysky, S.V. Prants	 Abstract: We continue our study of chaotic mixing and transport of passive particles in a simple model of a meandering jet flow [Prants, et al, Chaos {\bf 16}, 033117 (2006)]. In the present paper we study and explain phenomenologically a connection between dynamical, topological, and statistical properties of chaotic mixing and transport in the model flow in terms of dynamical traps, singular zones in the phase space where particles may spend arbitrary long but finite time [Zaslavsky, Phys. D {\bf 168--169}, 292 (2002)]. The transport of passive particles is described in terms of lengths and durations of zonal flights which are events between two successive changes of sign of zonal velocity. Some peculiarities of the respective probability density functions for short flights are proven to be caused by the so-called rotational-islands traps connected with the boundaries of resonant islands (including those of the vortex cores) filled with the particles moving in the same frame. Whereas, the statistics of long flights can be explained by the influence of the so-called ballistic-islands traps filled with the particles moving from a frame to frame. 
0704.02267	Infrared Optical Properties of Ferropericlase (Mg1-xFexO): Experiment  and Theory	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Tao Sun, Philip B. Allen, David G. Stahnke, Steven D. Jacobsen, Christopher C. Homes	 Abstract: The temperature dependence of the reflectance spectra of magnesium oxide (MgO) and ferropericlase (Mg1-xFexO, for x=0.06 and x=0.27) have been measured over a wide frequency range (~50 to 32000 cm-1) at 295 and 6 K. The complex dielectric function has been determined from a Kramers-Kronig analysis of the reflectance. The spectra of the doped materials resembles pure MgO in the infrared region, but with much broader resonances. We use a shell model to calculate the dielectric function of ferropericlase, including both anharmonic phonon-phonon interactions and disorder scattering. These data are relevant to understanding the heat conductivity of ferropericlase in the earth's lower mantle. 
0704.02268	Essential spectra of difference operators on $\sZ^n$-periodic graphs	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:V. S. Rabinovich, S. Roch	 Abstract: Let $(\cX, \rho)$ be a discrete metric space. We suppose that the group $\sZ^n$ acts freely on $X$ and that the number of orbits of $X$ with respect to this action is finite. Then we call $X$ a $\sZ^n$-periodic discrete metric space. We examine the Fredholm property and essential spectra of band-dominated operators on $l^p(X)$ where $X$ is a $\sZ^n$-periodic discrete metric space. Our approach is based on the theory of band-dominated operators on $\sZ^n$ and their limit operators. In case $X$ is the set of vertices of a combinatorial graph, the graph structure defines a Schr\"{o}dinger operator on $l^p(X)$ in a natural way. We illustrate our approach by determining the essential spectra of Schr\"{o}dinger operators with slowly oscillating potential both on zig-zag and on hexagonal graphs, the latter being related to nano-structures. 
0704.02269	Temporal and diffraction effects in entanglement creation in an optical  cavity	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:S. Natali, Z. Ficek	 Abstract: A practical scheme for entanglement creation between distant atoms located inside a single-mode optical cavity is discussed. We show that the degree of entanglement and the time it takes for the entanglement to reach its optimum value is a sensitive function the initial conditions and the position of the atoms inside the cavity mode. It is found that the entangled properties of the two atoms can readily be extracted from dynamics of a simple two-level system. Effectively, we engineer two coupled qubits whose the dynamics are analogous to that of a driven single two-level system. It is found that spatial variations of the coupling constants actually help to create transient entanglement which may appear on the time scale much longer than that predicted for the case of equal coupling constants. When the atoms are initially prepared in an entangled state, they may remain entangled for all times. We also find that the entanglement exhibits an interesting phenomenon of diffraction when the the atoms are located between the nodes and antinodes of the cavity mode. The diffraction pattern of the entanglement varies with time and we explain this effect in terms of the quantum property of complementarity, which is manifested as a tradeoff between the knowledge of energy of the exchanged photon versus the evolution time of the system. 
0704.02270	The Infrared Cloud Monitor for the MAGNUM Robotic Telescope at Haleakala	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Suganuma (1), Y. Kobayashi (1), N. Okada (1), Y. Yoshii (2), T. Minezaki (2), T. Aoki (2), K. Enya (3), H. Tomita (2), S. Koshida (2) ((1) National Astronomical Observatory of Japan, (2) University of Tokyo, (3) Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency)	 Abstract: We present the most successful infrared cloud monitor for a robotic telescope. This system was originally developed for the MAGNUM 2-m telescope, which has been achieving unmanned and automated monitoring observation of active galactic nuclei at Haleakala on the Hawaiian island of Maui since 2001. Using a thermal imager and two aspherical mirrors, it at once sees almost the whole sky at a wavelength of $\lambda\sim 10\mu{\rm m}$. Its outdoor part is weather-proof and is totally maintenance-free. The images obtained every one or two minutes are analysed immediately into several ranks of weather condition, from which our automated observing system not only decides to open or close the dome, but also selects what types of observations should be done. The whole-sky data accumulated over four years show that 50$-$60 % of all nights are photometric, and about 75 % are observable with respect to cloud condition at Haleakala. Many copies of this system are now used all over the world such as Mauna Kea in Hawaii, Atacama in Chile, and Okayama and Kiso in Japan. 
0704.02271	A search for OH 6 GHz maser emission towards southern supernova remnants	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Korinne E. McDonnell, Alan E. Vaughan, Mark Wardle (Macquarie University)	 Abstract: OH masers at 1720 MHz have proven to be excellent indicators of interactions between supernova remnants and molecular clouds. Recent calculations suggest that the 6049 MHz OH maser line is excited for higher column densities than for the 1720 MHz line. It is therefore a potentially valuable indicator of remnant-cloud interaction. We present preliminary results of a survey using the Parkes Methanol Multibeam receiver for 6049 MHz and 6035/6030 MHz OH masers towards 36 supernova remnants and 4 fields in the Large and Small Magellanic Clouds. While no 6049 MHz masers have been found, three new sites of 6035 and 6030 MHz OH maser emission have been discovered in star-forming regions. 
0704.02272	The Connection between Star-Forming Galaxies, AGN Host Galaxies and  Early-Type Galaxies in the SDSS	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Joon Hyeop Lee, Myung Gyoon Lee, Taehyun Kim, Ho Seong Hwang, Changbom Park, Yun-Young Choi	 Abstract: We present a study of the connection between star-forming galaxies, AGN host galaxies, and normal early-type galaxies in the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS). Using the SDSS DR5 and DR4plus data, we select our early-type galaxy sample in the color versus color-gradient space, and we classify the spectral types of the selected early-type galaxies into normal, star-forming, Seyfert, and LINER classes, using several spectral line flux ratios. We investigate the slope in the fundamental space for each class of early-type galaxies and find that there are obvious differences in the slopes of the fundamental planes (FPs) among the different classes of early-type galaxies, in the sense that the slopes for Seyferts and star-forming galaxies are flatter than those for normal galaxies and LINERs. This may be the first identification of the systematic variation of the FP slope among the subclasses of early-type galaxies. The difference in the FP slope might be caused by the difference in the degree of nonhomology among different classes or by the difference of gas contents in their merging progenitors. One possible scenario is that the AGN host galaxies and star-forming galaxies are formed by gas-rich merging and that they may evolve into normal early-type galaxies after finishing their star formation or AGN activities. 
0704.02273	Cosmological Symmetry Breaking, Pseudo-scale invariance, Dark Energy and  the Standard Model	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Pankaj Jain, Subhadip Mitra	 Abstract: The energy density of the universe today may be dominated by the vacuum energy of a slowly rolling scalar field. Making a quantum expansion around such a time dependent solution is found to break fundamental symmetries of quantum field theory. We call this mechanism cosmological symmetry breaking and argue that it is different from the standard phenomenon of spontaneous symmetry breaking. We illustrate this with a toy scalar field theory, whose action displays a U(1) symmetry. We identify a symmetry, called pseudo-scale invariance, which sets the cosmological constant exactly equal to zero, both in classical and quantum theory. This symmetry is also broken cosmologically and leads to a nonzero vacuum or dark energy. The slow roll condition along with the observed value of dark energy leads to a value of the background scalar field of the order of Planck mass. We also consider a U(1) gauge symmetry model. Cosmological symmetry breaking, in this case, leads to a non zero mass for the vector field. We also show that a cosmologically broken pseudo-scale invariance can generate a wide range of masses. 
0704.02274	Inverse Scattering for Gratings and Wave Guides	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Gregory Eskin (UCLA)James Ralston (UCLA)Masahiro Yamamoto (University of Tokyo)	 Abstract: We consider the problem of unique identification of dielectric coefficients for gratings and sound speeds for wave guides from scattering data. We prove that the "propagating modes" given for all frequencies uniquely determine these coefficients. The gratings may contain conductors as well as dielectrics and the boundaries of the conductors are also determined by the propagating modes. 
0704.02275	Gersten's conjecture	K-Theory and Homology (math.KT)	Authors:Satoshi Mochizuki	 Abstract: The purpose of this article is to prove that Gersten's conjecture for a commutative regular local ring is true. As its applications, we will prove the vanishing conjecture for certain Chow groups, generator conjecture for certain $K$-groups and Bloch's formula for absolute case. 
0704.02276	Physics Beyond the Standard Model and Dark Matter	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Hitoshi Murayama	 Abstract: In this lecture note, I discuss why many of us are expecting rich physics at the TeV scale, drawing analogies from the history of physics in the last century. Then I review some of the possible candidates of new physics at this energy scale. I also discuss why we believe much of the matter in the universe is not atoms (baryons) or compact astronomical objects, and hence requires physics beyond the standard model. Finally I discuss some of the candidates for the non-baryonic dark matter. 
0704.02277	Fermion loop simulation of the lattice Gross-Neveu model	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:Christof Gattringer, Verena Hermann, Markus Limmer	 Abstract: We present a numerical simulation of the Gross-Neveu model on the lattice using a new representation in terms of fermion loops. In the loop representation all signs due to Pauli statistics are eliminated completely and the partition function is a sum over closed loops with only positive weights. We demonstrate that the new formulation allows to simulate volumes which are two orders of magnitude larger than those accessible with standard methods. 
0704.02278	Inference on Eigenvalues of Wishart Distribution Using Asymptotics with  respect to the Dispersion of Population Eigenvalues	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Yo Sheena, Akimichi Takemura	 Abstract: In this paper we derive some new and practical results on testing and interval estimation problems for the population eigenvalues of a Wishart matrix based on the asymptotic theory for block-wise infinite dispersion of the population eigenvalues. This new type of asymptotic theory has been developed by the present authors in Takemura and Sheena (2005) and Sheena and Takemura (2007a,b) and in these papers it was applied to point estimation problem of population covariance matrix in a decision theoretic framework. In this paper we apply it to some testing and interval estimation problems. We show that the approximation based on this type of asymptotics is generally much better than the traditional large-sample asymptotics for the problems. 
0704.02279	On the Prospects for Detection and Identification of Low-Frequency  Oscillation Modes in Rotating B Type Stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. Daszynska-Daszkiewicz, W. A. Dziembowski, A. A. Pamyatnykh	 Abstract: We study how rotation affects observable amplitudes of high-order g- and mixed r/g-modes and examine prospects for their detection and identification. Our formalism, which is described in some detail, relies on a nonadiabatic generalization of the traditional approximation. Numerical results are presented for a number of unstable modes in a model of SPB star, at rotation rates up to 250 km/s. It is shown that rotation has a large effect on mode visibility in light and in mean radial velocity variations. In most cases, fast rotation impairs mode detectability of g-modes in light variation, as Townsend (2003b) has already noted, but it helps detection in radial velocity variation. The mixed modes, which exist only at sufficiently fast rotation, are also more easily seen in radial velocity. The amplitude ratios and phase differences are strongly dependent on the aspect, the rotational velocity and on the mode. The latter dependence is essential for mode identification. 
0704.02280	Full-time dynamics of modulational instability in spinor Bose-Einstein  condensates	Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)	Authors:Evgeny V. Doktorov, Vassilis M. Rothos, Yuri S. Kivshar	 Abstract: We describe the full-time dynamics of modulational instability in F=1 spinor Bose-Einstein condensates for the case of the integrable three-component model associated with the matrix nonlinear Schroedinger equation. We obtain an exact homoclinic solution of this model by employing the dressing method which we generalize to the case of the higher-rank projectors. This homoclinic solution describes the development of modulational instability beyond the linear regime, and we show that the modulational instability demonstrates the reversal property when the growth of the modulation amplitude is changed by its exponential decay. 
0704.02281	On the width of collective excitations in chiral soliton models	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:H. Weigel	 Abstract: In chiral soliton models for baryons the computation of hadronic decay widths of baryon resonances is a long standing problem. For the three flavor Skyrme model I present a solution to this problem that satisfies large--$N_C$ consistency conditions. As an application I focus on the hadronic decay of the $\Theta$ and $\Theta^*$ pentaquarks. 
0704.02282	Kekulé Cells for Molecular Computation	Other Computer Science (cs.OH)	Authors:W.H. Hesselink, J.C. Hummelen, H.T. Jonkman, H.G. Reker, G.R. Renardel de Lavalette, M.H. van der Veen	 Abstract: The configurations of single and double bonds in polycyclic hydrocarbons are abstracted as Kekul\'e states of graphs. Sending a so-called soliton over an open channel between ports (external nodes) of the graph changes the Kekul\'e state and therewith the set of open channels in the graph. This switching behaviour is proposed as a basis for molecular computation. The proposal is highly speculative but may have tremendous impact. Kekul\'e states with the same boundary behaviour (port assignment) can be regarded as equivalent. This gives rise to the abstraction of Kekul\'e cells. The basic theory of Kekul\'e states and Kekul\'e cells is developed here, up to the classification of Kekul\'e cells with $\leq 4$ ports. To put the theory in context, we generalize Kekul\'e states to semi-Kekul\'e states, which form the solutions of a linear system of equations over the field of the bits 0 and 1. We briefly study so-called omniconjugated graphs, in which every port assignment of the right signature has a Kekul\'e state. Omniconjugated graphs may be useful as connectors between computational elements. We finally investigate some examples with potentially useful switching behaviour. 
0704.02283	The Einstein relation generalized to non-equilibrium	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:V. Blickle, T. Speck, C. Lutz, U. Seifert, C. Bechinger	 Abstract: The Einstein relation connecting the diffusion constant and the mobility is violated beyond the linear response regime. For a colloidal particle driven along a periodic potential imposed by laser traps, we test the recent theoretical generalization of the Einstein relation to the non-equilibrium regime which involves an integral over measurable velocity correlation functions. 
0704.02284	Boundary Effects in Local Inflation and Spectrum of Density  Perturbations	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Erol Ertan, Ali Kaya	 Abstract: We observe that when a local patch in a radiation filled Robertson-Walker universe inflates by some reason, outside perturbations can enter into the inflating region. Generally, the physical wavelengths of these perturbations become larger than the Hubble radius as they cross into the inflating space and their amplitudes freeze out immediately. It turns out that the corresponding power spectrum is not scale invariant. Although these perturbations cannot reach out to a distance inner observer shielded by a de Sitter horizon, they still indicate a curious boundary effect in local inflationary scenarios. 
0704.02285	The 3D soft X-ray cluster-AGN cross-correlation function in the ROSAT  NEP survey	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:N. Cappelluti, H. Boehringer, P. Schuecker, E. Pierpaoli, C. R. Mullis, I. M. Gioia, J. P. Henry	 Abstract: X-ray surveys facilitate investigations of the environment of AGNs. Deep Chandra observations revealed that the AGNs source surface density rises near clusters of galaxies. The natural extension of these works is the measurement of spatial clustering of AGNs around clusters and the investigation of relative biasing between active galactic nuclei and galaxies near clusters.The major aims of this work are to obtain a measurement of the correlation length of AGNs around clusters and a measure of the averaged clustering properties of a complete sample of AGNs in dense environments. We present the first measurement of the soft X-ray cluster-AGN cross-correlation function in redshift space using the data of the ROSAT-NEP survey. The survey covers 9x9 deg^2 around the North Ecliptic Pole where 442 X-ray sources were detected and almost completely spectroscopically identified. We detected a >3sigma significant clustering signal on scales s<50 h70^-1 Mpc. We performed a classical maximum-likelihood power-law fit to the data and obtained a correlation length s_0=8.7+1.2-0.3 h_70-1 Mpc and a slope gamma=1.7$^+0.2_-0.7 (1sigma errors). This is a strong evidence that AGNs are good tracers of the large scale structure of the Universe. Our data were compared to the results obtained by cross-correlating X-ray clusters and galaxies. We observe, with a large uncertainty, that the bias factor of AGN is similar to that of galaxies. 
0704.02286	ALMA : Fourier phase analysis made possible	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:F. Levrier, E. Falgarone, F. Viallefond	 Abstract: Fourier phases contain a vast amount of information about structure in direct space, that most statistical tools never tap into. We address ALMA's ability to detect and recover this information, using the probability distribution function (PDF) of phase increments, and the related concepts of phase entropy and phase structure quantity. We show that ALMA, with its high dynamical range, is definitely needed to achieve significant detection of phase structure, and that it will do so even in the presence of a fair amount of atmospheric phase noise. We also show that ALMA should be able to recover the actual "amount" of phase structure in the noise-free case, if multiple configurations are used. 
0704.02287	New fluctuation-driven phase transitions and critical phenomena in  unconventional superconductors	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Dimo I. Uzunov	 Abstract: Using the renormalization group method, new type of fluctuation-driven first order phase transitions and critical phenomena are predicted for certain classes of ferromagnetic superconductors and superfluids with unconventional (spin-triplet) Cooper pairing. The problem for the quantum phase transitions at extremely low and zero temperatures is also discussed. The results can be applied to a wide class of ferromagnetic superconductive and superfluid systems, in particular, to itinerant ferromagnets as UGe2 and URhGe. 
0704.02288	Suppressed star formation in circumnuclear regions in Seyfert galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J.-M. Wang, Y.-M. Chen, C.-S. Yan, C. Hu, W.-H. Bian	 Abstract: Feedback from black hole activity is widely believed to play a key role in regulating star formation and black hole growth. A long-standing issue is the relation between the star formation and fueling the supermassive black holes in active galactic nuclei (AGNs). We compile a sample of 57 Seyfert galaxies to tackle this issue. We estimate the surface densities of gas and star formation rates in circumnuclear regions (CNRs). Comparing with the well-known Kennicutt-Schmidt (K-S) law, we find that the star formation rates in CNRs of most Seyfert galaxies are suppressed in this sample. Feedback is suggested to explain the suppressed star formation rates. 
0704.02289	Brownian excursion area, Wright's constants in graph enumeration, and  other Brownian areas	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Svante Janson	 Abstract: This survey is a collection of various results and formulas by different authors on the areas (integrals) of five related processes, viz.\spacefactor =1000 Brownian motion, bridge, excursion, meander and double meander; for the Brownian motion and bridge, which take both positive and negative values, we consider both the integral of the absolute value and the integral of the positive (or negative) part. This gives us seven related positive random variables, for which we study, in particular, formulas for moments and Laplace transforms; we also give (in many cases) series representations and asymptotics for density functions and distribution functions. We further study Wright's constants arising in the asymptotic enumeration of connected graphs; these are known to be closely connected to the moments of the Brownian excursion area. The main purpose is to compare the results for these seven Brownian areas by stating the results in parallel forms; thus emphasizing both the similarities and the differences. A recurring theme is the Airy function which appears in slightly different ways in formulas for all seven random variables. We further want to give explicit relations between the many different similar notations and definitions that have been used by various authors. There are also some new results, mainly to fill in gaps left in the literature. Some short proofs are given, but most proofs are omitted and the reader is instead referred to the original sources. 
0704.02290	The Heaviside equation for laser heating of the fullerennes	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:J.Marciak-Kozlowska, Miroslaw kozlowski	 Abstract: In his paper the heating of the fullerenes by ultra-short laser pulses is investigated. The thermal Heaviside equation is formulated and solved for the Cauchy initial condition The effective thermal relaxation time is calculated.. Key words: fullerenes, Heaviside thermal equation, effective thermal relaxation time. 
0704.02291	Fundamentalist physics: why Dark Energy is bad for Astronomy	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Simon D.M. White	 Abstract: Astronomers carry out observations to explore the diverse processes and objects which populate our Universe. High-energy physicists carry out experiments to approach the Fundamental Theory underlying space, time and matter. Dark Energy is a unique link between them, reflecting deep aspects of the Fundamental Theory, yet apparently accessible only through astronomical observation. Large sections of the two communities have therefore converged in support of astronomical projects to constrain Dark Energy. In this essay I argue that this convergence can be damaging for astronomy. The two communities have different methodologies and different scientific cultures. By uncritically adopting the values of an alien system, astronomers risk undermining the foundations of their own current success and endangering the future vitality of their field. Dark Energy is undeniably an interesting problem to attack through astronomical observation, but it is one of many and not necessarily the one where significant progress is most likely to follow a major investment of resources. 
0704.02292	Double transverse spin asymmetry in the $p^\uparrow\bar{p}^\uparrow$  Drell-Yan process from Sivers functions	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Zhun Lu, Bo-Qiang Ma, Ivan Schmidt	 Abstract: We show that the transverse double spin asymmetry (DSA) in the Drell-Yan process contributed only from the Sivers functions can be picked out by the weighting function $\frac{Q_T}{M^2}(\cos(\phi-\phi_{S_1})\cos(\phi-\phi_{S_2})+3\sin(\phi-\phi_{S_1})\sin(\phi-\phi_{S_2}))$. The asymmetry is proportional to the product of two Sivers functions from each hadron $f_{1T}^{\perp(1)}\times f_{1T}^{\perp (1)}$. Using two sets of Sivers functions extracted from the semi-inclusive deeply elastic scattering data at HERMES, we estimate this asymmetry in the $p^\uparrow\bar{p}^\uparrow$ Drell-Yan process which is possible to be performed in HESR at GSI. The prediction of DSA in the Drell-Yan process contributed by the function $g_{1T}(x,\Vec k_T^2)$, which can be extracted by the weighting function $\frac{Q_T}{M^2}(3\cos(\phi-\phi_{S_1})\cos(\phi-\phi_{S_2})+\sin(\phi-\phi_{S_1})\sin(\phi-\phi_{S_2}))$, is also given at GSI. 
0704.02293	X-ray source counts in the COSMOS field	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:N. Cappelluti, G. Hasinger, M. Brusa, A. Comastri, G. Zamorani, H. Boehringer, H. Brunner, F. Civano, A. Finoguenov, F. Fiore, R. Gilli, R. E. Griffiths, V. Mainieri, I. Matute, T. Miyaji, J. Silverman	 Abstract: We present the analysis of the source counts in the XMM-COSMOS survey using data of the first year of XMM-Newton observations. The survey covers ~2 deg^2 within the region of sky bounded by 9^h57.5^m<R.A.<10^h03.5^m; 1^d27.5^m<DEC<2^d57.5^m with a total net integration time of 504 ks. Using a maximum likelihood algorithm we detected a total of 1390 sources at least in one band. Using Monte Carlo simulations to estimate the sky coverage we produced the logN-logS relations. These relations have been then derived in the 0.5--2 keV, 2--10 keV and 5--10 keV energy bands, down to flux limits of 7.2x10^-16 erg cm^-2 s^-1, 4.0x10^-15 erg cm^-2 s^-1 and 9.7x10^-15 erg cm^-2 s^-1, respectively. These relations have been compared to previous X-ray survey and to the most recent X-ray background model finding an excellent agreement. The slightly different normalizations observed in the source counts of COSMOS and previous surveys can be largely explained as a combination of low counting statistics and cosmic variance introduced by the large scale structure. 
0704.02294	Sensitivity of low degree oscillations to the change in solar abundances	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Zaatri, J. Provost, G. Berthomieu, P. Morel, T. Corbard	 Abstract: Context. The most recent determination of the solar chemical composition, using a time-dependent, 3D hydrodynamical model of the solar atmosphere, exhibits a significant decrease of C, N, O abundances compared to their previous values. Solar models that use these new abundances are not consistent with helioseismological determinations of the sound speed profile, the surface helium abundance and the convection zone depth. Aims. We investigate the effect of changes of solar abundances on low degree p-mode and g-mode characteristics which are strong constraints of the solar core. We consider particularly the increase of neon abundance in the new solar mixture in order to reduce the discrepancy between models using new abundances and helioseismology. Methods. The observational determinations of solar frequencies from the GOLF instrument are used to test solar models computed with different chemical compositions. We consider in particular the normalized small frequency spacings in the low degree p-mode frequency range. Results. Low-degree small frequency spacings are very sensitive to changes in the heavy-element abundances, notably neon. We show that by considering all the seismic constraints, including the small frequency spacings, a rather large increase of neon abundance by about (0.5 +/- 0.05)dex can be a good solution to the discrepancy between solar models that use new abundances and low degree helioseismology, subject to adjusting slightly the solar age and the highest abundances. We also show that the change in solar abundances, notably neon, considerably affects g-mode frequencies, with relative frequency differences between the old and the new models higher than 1.5% 
0704.02295	Using Image Attributes for Human Identification Protocols	Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)	Authors:Hassan Jameel, Heejo Lee, Sungyoung Lee	 Abstract: A secure human identification protocol aims at authenticating human users to a remote server when even the users' inputs are not hidden from an adversary. Recently, the authors proposed a human identification protocol in the RSA Conference 2007, which is loosely based on the ability of humans to efficiently process an image. The advantage being that an automated adversary is not effective in attacking the protocol without human assistance. This paper extends that work by trying to solve some of the open problems. First, we analyze the complexity of defeating the proposed protocols by quantifying the workload of a human adversary. Secondly, we propose a new construction based on textual CAPTCHAs (Reverse Turing Tests) in order to make the generation of automated challenges easier. We also present a brief experiment involving real human users to find out the number of possible attributes in a given image and give some guidelines for the selection of challenge questions based on the results. Finally, we analyze the previously proposed protocol in detail for the relationship between the secrets. Our results show that we can construct human identification protocols based on image evaluation with reasonably ``quantified'' security guarantees based on our model. 
0704.02296	Extracting the ${\bar q}q$ condensate for light quarks beyond the chiral  limit in models of QCD	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:R. Williams, C. S. Fischer, M. R. Pennington	 Abstract: It has recently been suggested \cite{Chang:2006bm} that a reliable and unambiguous definition of the non-perturbative massive quark condensate could be provided by considering a non positive-definite class of solutions to the Schwinger Dyson Equation for the quark propagator. In this paper we show that this definition is incomplete without considering a third class of solutions. Indeed, studying these three classes reveals a degeneracy of possible condensate definitions leading to a whole range of values. However, we show that the {\it physical} condensate may in fact be extracted by simple fitting to the Operator Product Expansion, a procedure which is stabilised by considering the three classes of solution together. We find that for current quark masses in the range from zero to 25 MeV or so (defined at a scale of 2 GeV in the $\bar{MS}$ scheme), the dynamically generated condensate increases from the chiral limit in a wide range of phenomenologically successful models of the confining QCD interaction. Lastly, the role of a fourth class of noded solutions is briefly discussed. 
0704.02297	Efficient scheme for one-way quantum computing in thermal cavities	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Wen-Xing Yang, Zhe-Xuan Gong	 Abstract: We propose a practical scheme for one-way quantum computing based on efficient generation of 2D cluster state in thermal cavities. We achieve a controlled-phase gate that is neither sensitive to cavity decay nor to thermal field by adding a strong classical field to the two-level atoms. We show that a 2D cluster state can be generated directly by making every two atoms collide in an array of cavities, with numerically calculated parameters and appropriate operation sequence that can be easily achieved in practical Cavity QED experiments. Based on a generated cluster state in Box$^{(4)}$ configuration, we then implement Grover's search algorithm for four database elements in a very simple way as an example of one-way quantum computing. 
0704.02298	Probing Alpha-Vacua of Black Holes in LHC	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Tower Wang	 Abstract: Motivated by the idea of alpha-vacua in Schwarzschild spacetime, we studied the deformed spectrum of Hawking radiation. Such a deformation would leave signatures on the small black hole evaporation in LHC because their vacuum deviates from the Unruh state. 
0704.02299	One-dimensional Rydberg Gas in a Magnetoelectric Trap	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:Michael Mayle, Bernd Hezel, Igor Lesanovsky, Peter Schmelcher	 Abstract: We study the quantum properties of Rydberg atoms in a magnetic Ioffe-Pritchard trap which is superimposed by a homogeneous electric field. Trapped Rydberg atoms can be created in long-lived electronic states exhibiting a permanent electric dipole moment of several hundred Debye. The resulting dipole-dipole interaction in conjunction with the radial confinement is demonstrated to give rise to an effectively one-dimensional ultracold Rydberg gas with a macroscopic interparticle distance. We derive analytical expressions for the electric dipole moment and the critical linear density of Rydberg atoms. 
0704.02300	Optical properties of (In,Ga)As capped InAs quantum dots grown on [11k]  substrates	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:V. Mlinar, F. M. Peeters	 Abstract: Using three-dimensional k.p calculation including strain and piezoelectricity, we showed that the size of the quantum dot (QD) in the growth direction determines the influence of the (In,Ga)As capping layer on the optical properties of [11k] grown InAs QDs, where k=1,2,3. For flat dots, increase of In concentration in the capping layer leads to a decrease of the transition energy, as is the case of [001] grown QDs, whereas for large dots an increase of the In concentration in the capping layer is followed by an increase of the transition energy up to a critical concentration of In, after which the optical transition energy starts to decrease. 
0704.02301	Enhanced sensitivity to time-variation of m_p/m_e in the inversion  spectrum of ammonia	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:V. V. Flambaum, M. G. Kozlov	 Abstract: We calculate the sensitivity of the inversion spectrum of ammonia to possible time-variation of the ratio of the proton mass to the electron mass, mu=m_p/m_e. For the inversion transition (lambda= 1.25 cm^{-1}) the relative frequency shift is significantly enhanced: delta(omega)/omega=-4.46, delta(mu)/mu. This enhancement allows one to increase sensitivity to the time-variation of mu using NH_3 spectra for high redshift objects. We use published data on microwave spectra of the object B0218+357 to place the limit delta(mu)/mu =(0.6 +/- 1.9) 10^{-6} at redshift z=0.6847; this limit is several times better than the limits obtained by different methods and may be significantly improved. Assuming linear time dependence we obtain dot{mu}/mu=(-1 +/- 3) 10^{-16} yr^{-1}. 
0704.02302	Casimir effect on nontrivial topology spaces in Krein space quantization	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:M. Naseri, S. Rouhani, M.V. Takook	 Abstract: Casimir effect of a topologically nontrivial two-dimensional space-time, through Krein space quantization [1,2], has been calculated. In other words, auxiliary negative norm states have been utilized here. Presence of negative norm states play the role of an automatic renormalization device for the theory. The negative norm states (which do not interact with the physical world) could be chosen in two perspective. In the first case our method results in zero or vanishing values for energy. In the second case, however, the result are the same as the renormalization procedure. 
0704.02303	Exciton energy transfer in nanotube bundles	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:P. H. Tan, A. G. Rozhin, T. Hasan, P. Hu, V. Scardaci, W. I. Milne, A. C. Ferrari	 Abstract: Photoluminescence is commonly used to identify the electronic structure of individual nanotubes. But, nanotubes naturally occur in bundles. Thus, we investigate photoluminescence of nanotube bundles. We show that their complex spectra are simply explained by exciton energy transfer between adjacent tubes, whereby excitation of large gap tubes induces emission from smaller gap ones via Forster interaction between excitons. The consequent relaxation rate is faster than non-radiative recombination, leading to enhanced photoluminescence of acceptor tubes. This fingerprints bundles with different compositions and opens opportunities to optimize them for opto-electronics. 
0704.02304	Factorization of the Non-Stationary Schrodinger Operator	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:P. Cerejeiras, N. Vieira	 Abstract: We consider a factorization of the non-stationary Schrodinger operator based on the parabolic Dirac operator introduced by Cerejeiras/ Kahler/ Sommen. Based on the fundamental solution for the parabolic Dirac operators, we shall construct appropriated Teodorescu and Cauchy-Bitsadze operators. Afterwards we will describe how to solve the nonlinear Schrodinger equation using Banach fixed point theorem. 
0704.02305	c2d Spitzer IRS Spectra of Disks around T Tauri Stars. III. [Ne II], [Fe  I], and H_2 gas-phase lines	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Fred Lahuis, Ewine F. van Dishoeck, Geoffrey A. Blake, Neal J. Evans II, Jacqueline E. Kessler-Silacci, Klaus M. Pontoppidan	 Abstract: We present a survey of mid-infrared gas-phase lines toward a sample of 76 circumstellar disks around low mass pre-main sequence stars from the Spitzer "Cores to Disks" legacy program. We report the first detections of [Ne II] and [Fe I] toward classical T Tauri stars in ~20% respectively ~9% of our sources. The observed [Ne II] line fluxes and upper limits are consistent with [Ne II] excitation in an X-ray irradiated disk around stars with X-ray luminosities L_X=10^{29}-10^{31} erg s^{-1}. [Fe I] is detected at ~10^-5-10^-4 L_Sun, but no [S I] or [Fe II] is detected down to ~10^{-6} L_Sun. The [Fe I] detections indicate the presence of gas-rich disks with masses of >~0.1 M_J. No H_2 0-0 S(0) and S(1) disk emission is detected, except for S(1) toward one source. These data give upper limits on the warm (T~100-200K) gas mass of a few Jovian masses, consistent with recent T Tauri disk models which include gas heating by stellar radiation. Compact disk emission of hot (T>~500K) gas is observed through the H_2 0-0 S(2) and/or S(3) lines toward ~8% of our sources. The line fluxes are, however, higher by more than an order of magnitude than those predicted by recent disk models, even when X-ray and excess UV radiation are included. Similarly the [Ne II]/H_2 0-0 S(2) ratios for these sources are lower than predicted, consistent with the presence of an additional hot molecular gas component not included in current disk models. Oblique shocks of stellar winds interacting with the disk can explain many aspects of the hot gas emission, but are inconsistent with the non-detection of [S I] and [Fe II] lines. 
0704.02306	Probing physical properties of confined fluids within individual  nanobubbles	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:D. Taverna, M. Kociak, O. Stéphan, A. Fabre, E. Finot, B. Décamps, C. Colliex	 Abstract: Spatially resolved electron energy-loss spectroscopy (EELS) in a scanning transmission electron microscope (STEM) has been used to investigate as fluidic phase in nanoubbles embedded in a metallic Pd90Pt10 matrix. Using the 1s->2p excitation of the He atoms, maps of the He distribution, in particular of its density an pressure in bubbles of different diameter have been realized, thus providing an indication of the involved bubble formation mechanism. However, the short-range Pauli repulsion mechanism between electrons on neighboring atoms seems insufficient to interpret minute variations of the local local measurements performed at the interface between the metal and the He bubble. Simulations relying on the continuum dielectric model have show that these deviations could be interpreted as an interfzce polarization effect on the He atomic transition, which should be accounted for when measuring the densities within the smaller bubbles. 
0704.02307	ATLAS Discovery Potential for the Charged Higgs Boson in H+ to tau nu  Decays	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Bjarte Mohn, Martin Flechl, Johan Alwall	 Abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors in order to comply with the ATLAS publication policy and is now only available via the CERN cdsweb (this http URL) 
0704.02308	On dynamical gluon mass generation	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:A. C. Aguilar, J. Papavassiliou	 Abstract: The effective gluon propagator constructed with the pinch technique is governed by a Schwinger-Dyson equation with special structure and gauge properties, that can be deduced from the correspondence with the background field method. Most importantly the non-perturbative gluon self-energy is transverse order-by-order in the dressed loop expansion, and separately for gluonic and ghost contributions, a property which allows for a meanigfull truncation. A linearized version of the truncated Schwinger-Dyson equation is derived, using a vertex that satisfies the required Ward identity and contains massless poles. The resulting integral equation, subject to a properly regularized constraint, is solved numerically, and the main features of the solutions are briefly discussed. 
0704.02309	Imaging the Ionized Disk of the High-Mass Protostar Orion-I	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. J. Reid, K. M. Menten, L. J. Greenhill, C. J. Chandler	 Abstract: We have imaged the enigmatic radio source-I (Orion-I) in the Orion-KL nebula with the VLA at 43 GHz with 34 mas angular resolution. The continuum emission is highly elongated and is consistent with that expected from a nearly edge-on disk. The high brightness and lack of strong molecular lines from Orion-I can be used to argue against emission from dust. Collisional ionization and H-minus free-free opacity, as in Mira variables, require a central star with >10^5 Lsun, which is greater than infrared observations allow. However, if significant local heating associated with accretion occurs, lower total luminosities are possible. Alternatively, photo-ionization from an early B-type star and p+/e- bremsstrahlung can explain our observations, and Orion-I may be an example of ionized accretion disk surrounding a forming massive star. Such accretion disks may not be able to form planets efficiently. 
0704.02310	Semiclassical Theory of Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer Pairing-Gap  Fluctuations	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:H. Olofsson, S. Åberg, P. Leboeuf	 Abstract: Superfluidity and superconductivity are genuine many-body manifestations of quantum coherence. For finite-size systems the associated pairing gap fluctuates as a function of size or shape. We provide a parameter free theoretical description of pairing fluctuations in mesoscopic systems characterized by order/chaos dynamics. The theory accurately describes experimental observations of nuclear superfluidity (regular system), predicts universal fluctuations of superconductivity in small chaotic metallic grains, and provides a global analysis in ultracold Fermi gases. 
0704.02311	Coulomb scattering of the Dirac field on de Sitter expanding universe	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Cosmin Crucean	 Abstract: The lowest order contribution of the amplitude of the Dirac-Coulomb scattering in de Sitter spacetime is calculated assuming that the initial and final states of the Dirac field are described by exact solutions of the free Dirac equation on de Sitter spacetime with a given momentum and helicity. One studies the difficulties that arises when one passes from the amplitude to cross section. 
0704.02312	Low energy proton-proton scattering in effective field theory	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Shung-ichi Ando, Jae Won Shin, Chang Ho Hyun, Seung Woo Hong (Sungkyunkwan U.)	 Abstract: Low energy proton-proton scattering is studied in pionless effective field theory. Employing the dimensional regularization and MS-bar and power divergence subtraction schemes for loop calculation, we calculate the scattering amplitude in 1S0 channel up to next-to-next-to leading order and fix low-energy constants that appear in the amplitude by effective range parameters. We study regularization scheme and scale dependence in separation of Coulomb interaction from the scattering length and effective range for the S-wave proton-proton scattering. 
0704.02313	Discontinuous Phase Transition in an Exactly Solvable One-Dimensional  Creation-Annihilation System	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:F H Jafarpour, B Ghavami	 Abstract: An exactly solvable reaction-diffusion model consisting of first-class particles in the presence of a single second-class particle is introduced on a one-dimensional lattice with periodic boundary condition. The number of first-class particles can be changed due to creation and annihilation reactions. It is shown that the system undergoes a discontinuous phase transition in contrast to the case where the density of the second-class particles is finite and the phase transition is continuous. 
0704.02314	Axial Resonances in the Open and Hidden Charm Sectors	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:D.Gamermann, E.Oset	 Abstract: A SU(4) flavor symmetrical Lagrangian is constructed for the interaction of the pseudo-scalar mesons with the vector mesons. SU(4) symmetry is broken to SU(3) by suppression of terms in the Lagrangian where the interaction should be driven by charmed mesons. Chiral symmetry can be restored by setting this new SU(4) symmetry breaking parameters to zero. Unitarization in coupled channels leads to the dynamical generation of resonances. Many known axial resonances can be identified including the new controversial X(3872) and the structure found recently by Belle around 3875 MeV in the hidden charm sector. Also new resonances are predicted, some of them with exotic quantum numbers. 
0704.02315	Exact Mapping of the 2+1 Dirac Oscillator onto the Jaynes-Cummings  Model: Ion-Trap Experimental Proposal	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:A. Bermudez, M.A. Martin-Delgado, E. Solano	 Abstract: We study the dynamics of the 2+1 Dirac oscillator exactly and find spin oscillations due to a {\it Zitterbewegung} of purely relativistic origin. We find an exact mapping of this quantum-relativistic system onto a Jaynes-Cummings model, describing the interaction of a two-level atom with a quantized single-mode field. This equivalence allows us to map a series of quantum optical phenomena onto the relativistic oscillator, and viceversa. We make a realistic experimental proposal, at reach with current technology, for studying the equivalence of both models using a single trapped ion. 
0704.02316	Correlations and sum rules in a half-space for a quantum two-dimensional  one-component plasma	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:B. Jancovici, L. Samaj	 Abstract: This paper is the continuation of a previous one [L. {\v{S}}amaj and B. Jancovici, 2007 {\it J. Stat. Mech.} P02002]; for a nearly classical quantum fluid in a half-space bounded by a plain plane hard wall (no image forces), we had generalized the Wigner-Kirkwood expansion of the equilibrium statistical quantities in powers of Planck's constant $\hbar$. As a model system for a more detailed study, we consider the quantum two-dimensional one-component plasma: a system of charged particles of one species, interacting through the logarithmic Coulomb potential in two dimensions, in a uniformly charged background of opposite sign, such that the total charge vanishes. The corresponding classical system is exactly solvable in a variety of geometries, including the present one of a half-plane, when $\beta e^2=2$, where $\beta$ is the inverse temperature and $e$ is the charge of a particle: all the classical $n$-body densities are known. For the quantum one-component plasma, two sum rules involving the truncated two-body density (and, for one of them, the density profile) have been derived, a long time ago, by heuristic macroscopic arguments: one sum rule is about the asymptotic form along the wall of the truncated two-body density, the other one is about the dipole moment of the structure factor. In the two-dimensional case at $\beta e^2=2$, we have now explicit expressions up to order $\hbar^2$ of these two quantum densities, thus we can microscopically check the sum rules at this order. The checks are positive, reinforcing the idea that the sum rules are correct. 
0704.02317	Quasi Equilibrium Grid Algorithm: geometric construction for model  reduction	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:E. Chiavazzo, I.V. Karlin	 Abstract: The Method of Invariant Grid (MIG) is an iterative procedure for model reduction in chemical kinetics which is based on the notion of Slow Invariant Manifold (SIM) [1-4]. Important role, in that method, is played by the initial grid which, once refined, gives a description of the invariant manifold: the invariant grid. A convenient way to get a first approximation of the SIM is given by the Spectral Quasi Equilibrium Manifold (SQEM) [1-2]. In the present paper, a flexible numerical method to construct the discrete analog of a Quasi Equilibrium Manifold, in any dimension, is presented. That object is named Quasi Equilibrium Grid (QEG), while the procedure Quasi Equilibrium Grid Algorithm. Extensions of the QEM notion are also suggested. The QEG is a numerical tool which can be used to find a grid-based approximation for the locus of minima of a convex function under some linear constraints. The method is validated by construction of one and two-dimensional grids for model hydrogen oxidation reaction. 
0704.02318	On a multi-resonant origin of high frequency quasiperiodic oscillations  in the neutron-star X-ray binary 4U 1636-53	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Zdenek Stuchlik, Gabriel Torok, Pavel Bakala	 Abstract: The results we presented were biased because of the typing error in the code transcription of the equation (A.12). We will replace by the corrected version soon. The brief of the corrected results can be found at this http URL 
0704.02319	Optical pumping of charged excitons in unintentionally doped InAs  quantum dots	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:G. Munoz-Matutano, B. Alen, J. Martinez-Pastor, L. Seravalli, P. Frigeri, S. Franchi	 Abstract: As an alternative to commonly used electrical methods, we have investigated the optical pumping of charged exciton complexes addressing impurity related transitions with photons of the appropriate energy. Under these conditions, we demonstrate that the pumping fidelity can be very high while still maintaining a switching behavior between the different excitonic species. This mechanism has been investigated for single quantum dots of different size present in the same sample and compared with the direct injection of spectator electrons from nearby donors. 
0704.02320	Reduction of boundary effects in spiral MRI experiment PROMISE	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. Szklarski	 Abstract: Magnetorotational instability (MRI) is one of the most important and most common instabilities in astrophysics, it is widely accepted that it serves as a source of turbulent viscosity in accretion disks -- the most energy efficient objects in the Universe. However it is very difficult to bring this process down on earth and model it in a laboratory experiment. Several different approaches have been proposed, one of the most recent is PROMISE (Potsdam-ROssendorf Magnetorotational InStability Experiment). It consists of a flow of a liquid metal between two rotating cylinders under applied current-free spiral magnetic field. The cylinders must be covered with plates which introduce additional end-effects which alter the flow and make it more difficult to clearly distinguish between MRI stable and unstable state. In this paper we propose simple and inexpensive improvement to the PROMISE experiment which would reduce those undesirable effects. 
0704.02321	No multi-graviton theories in the presence of a Dirac field	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:C. Bizdadea, E. M. Cioroianu, A. C. Lungu, S. O. Saliu	 Abstract: The cross-couplings among several massless spin-two fields (described in the free limit by a sum of Pauli-Fierz actions) in the presence of a Dirac field are investigated in the framework of the deformation theory based on local BRST cohomology. Under the hypotheses of locality, smoothness of the interactions in the coupling constant, Poincare invariance, (background) Lorentz invariance and the preservation of the number of derivatives on each field, we prove that there are no consistent cross-interactions among different gravitons in the presence of a Dirac field. The basic features of the couplings between a single Pauli-Fierz field and a Dirac field are also emphasized. 
0704.02322	Self consistent theory of unipolar charge-carrier injection in  metal/insulator/metal systems	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:F. Neumann, Y. A. Genenko, C. Melzer, H. von Seggern	 Abstract: A consistent device model to describe current-voltage characteristics of metal/insulator/metal systems is developed. In this model the insulator and the metal electrodes are described within the same theoretical framework by using density of states distributions. This approach leads to differential equations for the electric field which have to be solved in a self consistent manner by considering the continuity of the electric displacement and the electrochemical potential in the complete system. The model is capable of describing the current-voltage characteristics of the metal/insulator/metal system in forward and reverse bias for arbitrary values of the metal/ insulator injection barriers. In the case of high injection barriers, approximations are provided offering a tool for comparison with experiments. Numerical calculations are performed exemplary using a simplified model of an organic semiconductor. 
0704.02323	Bandstructure and optical properties of $α-LiIO_{3}$ crystal	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Yung-mau Nie	 Abstract: The bandstructure was calculated by the full-potential linearized augmented plane wave method. The result reveals two important insights to the novel second harmonic generation (SHG) of alpha-phase lithium iodate ($\alpha-LiIO_{3}$) crystal: the existence of finite intra-band momentum matrix elements due to the non-inversion symmetry of the crystal illuminating the potential of the intra-band transition, and the strong covalent bonding between the $I$-atoms and the ligand $O$-atoms resulting the condition of the double-resonance. An inter-band transition scenario in SHG as $\alpha-LiIO_{3}$ in nano-structure is proposed. The optical properties were calculated within the theoretical framework of the time-dependent perturbation of the independent-particle model. The dielectric tensors and the refractive index were evaluated. Comparisons between the predictions and the results were made: the x-ray near edge absorption spectra; the refractive index at the static limit, and at finite frequencies. Possible factors attributing the calculation errors is discussed. 
0704.02324	Collective states in social systems with interacting learning agents	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Viktoriya Semeshenko, Mirta B. Gordon, Jean-Pierre Nadal	 Abstract: We consider a social system of interacting heterogeneous agents with learning abilities, a model close to Random Field Ising Models, where the random field corresponds to the idiosyncratic willingness to pay. Given a fixed price, agents decide repeatedly whether to buy or not a unit of a good, so as to maximize their expected utilities. We show that the equilibrium reached by the system depends on the nature of the information agents use to estimate their expected utilities. 
0704.02325	Basic principles of postgrowth annealing of CdTe:Cl ingot to obtain  semi-insulating crystals	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:O. A. Matveev, A. I. Terent'ev	 Abstract: The process of annealing of a CdTe:Cl ingot during its cooling after growth was studied. The annealing was performed in two stages: a high-temperature stage, with an approximate equality of chlorine and cadmium vacancy concentrations established at the thermodynamic equilibrium between the crystal and vapors of volatile components, and a low-temperature stage, with charged defects interacting to form neutral associations. The chlorine concentrations necessary to obtain semi-insulating crystals were determined for various ingot cooling rates in the high temperature stage. The dependence of the chlorine concentration [Cl+Te] in the ingot on the temperature of annealing in the high-temperature stage was found. The carrier lifetimes and drift mobilities were obtained in relation to the temperature and cadmium vapor pressure in the postgrowth annealing of the ingot. 
0704.02326	On a systematic approach to defects in classical integrable field  theories	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:V. Caudrelier	 Abstract: We present an inverse scattering approach to defects in classical integrable field theories. Integrability is proved systematically by constructing the generating function of the infinite set of modified integrals of motion. The contribution of the defect to all orders is explicitely identified in terms of a defect matrix. The underlying geometric picture is that those defects correspond to Backlund transformations localized at a given point. A classification of defect matrices as well as the corresponding defect conditions is performed. The method is applied to a collection of well-known integrable models and previous results are recovered (and extended) directly as special cases. Finally, a brief discussion of the classical $r$-matrix approach in this context shows the relation to inhomogeneous lattice models and the need to resort to lattice regularizations of integrable field theories with defects. 
0704.02327	Symmetries in the system of type $A_5^{(2)}$	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yusuke Sasano	 Abstract: In this paper, we propose a 3-parameter family of coupled Painlev\'e III systems in dimension four with affine Weyl group symmetry of type $A_5^{(2)}$. We also propose its symmetric form in which the $A_5^{(2)}$-symmetries become clearly visible. 
0704.02328	Cutting surfaces and applications to periodic points and chaotic-like  dynamics	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Marina Pireddu, Fabio Zanolin	 Abstract: In this paper we propose an elementary topological approach which unifies and extends various different results concerning fixed points and periodic points for maps defined on sets homeomorphic to rectangles embedded in euclidean spaces. We also investigate the associated discrete semidynamical systems in view of detecting the presence of chaotic-like dynamics. 
0704.02329	Quantum pump effect in one-dimensional systems of Dirac fermions	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:L. Arrachea, Carlos Naón, Mariano Salvay	 Abstract: We investigate the behavior of the directed current in one-dimensional systems of Dirac fermions driven by local periodic potentials in the forward as well in backscattering channels. We treat the problem with Keldysh non-equilibrium Green's function formalism. We present the exact solution for the case of an infinite wire and show that in this case the dc current vanishes identically. We also investigate a confined system consistent in an annular arrangement coupled to a particle reservoir. We present a perturbative treatment that allows for the analytical expressions of the dc current in the lowest order of the amplitudes of the potential. We also present results obtained from the exact numerical solution of the problem. 
0704.02330	CdZnTe:Cl crystals for X-ray computer tomography detectors	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:O. A. Matveev, A. I. Terent'ev, V. P. Karpenko, N. K. Zelenina, A. Fauler, M. Federle, K. W. Benz	 Abstract: Processes of growth of semi-insulating Cd(1-x)Zn(x)Te:Cl crystals (x = 0.0002 and 0.1) of n-type conductivity are investigated. From the grown crystals detectors for X-ray computer tomography with small value of photocurrent memory (afterglow) (0.1-0.3%) are obtained. 
0704.02331	Symmetries in the system of type $D_4^{(1)}$	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yusuke Sasano	 Abstract: In this paper, we propose a 4-parameter family of coupled Painlev\'e III systems in dimension four with affine Weyl group symmetry of type $D_4^{(1)}$. We also propose its symmetric form in which the $D_4^{(1)}$-symmetries become clearly visible. 
0704.02332	Survival of the mm-cm size grain population observed in protoplanetary  disks	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:F. Brauer, C. P. Dullemond, A. Johansen, Th. Henning, H. Klahr, A. Natta	 Abstract: Millimeter interferometry provides evidence for the presence of mm to cm size "pebbles" in the outer parts of disks around pre-main-sequence stars. The observations suggest that large grains are produced relatively early in disk evolution (< 1 Myr) and remain at large radii for longer periods of time (5 to 10 Myr). Simple theoretical estimates of the radial drift time of solid particles, however, imply that they would drift inward over a time scale of less than 0.1 Myr. In this paper, we address this conflict between theory and observation, using more detailed theoretical models, including the effects of sedimentation, collective drag forces and turbulent viscosity. We find that, although these effects slow down the radial drift of the dust particles, this reduction is not sufficient to explain the observationally determined long survival time of mm/cm-sized grains in protoplanetary disks. However, if for some reason the gas to dust ratio in the disk is reduced by at least a factor of 20 from the canonical value of 100 (for instance through photoevaporation of the gas), then the radial drift time scales become sufficiently large to be in agreement with observations. 
0704.02333	Discrete Choices under Social Influence: Generic Properties	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Mirta B. Gordon, Jean-Pierre Nadal, Denis Phan, Viktoriya Semeshenko	 Abstract: We consider a model of socially interacting individuals that make a binary choice in a context of positive additive endogenous externalities. It encompasses as particular cases several models from the sociology and economics literature. We extend previous results to the case of a general distribution of idiosyncratic preferences, called here Idiosyncratic Willingnesses to Pay (IWP). Positive additive externalities yield a family of inverse demand curves that include the classical downward sloping ones but also new ones with non constant convexity. When j, the ratio of the social influence strength to the standard deviation of the IWP distribution, is small enough, the inverse demand is a classical monotonic (decreasing) function of the adoption rate. Even if the IWP distribution is mono-modal, there is a critical value of j above which the inverse demand is non monotonic, decreasing for small and high adoption rates, but increasing within some intermediate range. Depending on the price there are thus either one or two equilibria. Beyond this first result, we exhibit the generic properties of the boundaries limiting the regions where the system presents different types of equilibria (unique or multiple). These properties are shown to depend only on qualitative features of the IWP distribution: modality (number of maxima), smoothness and type of support (compact or infinite). The main results are summarized as phase diagrams in the space of the model parameters, on which the regions of multiple equilibria are precisely delimited. 
0704.02334	No interactions for a collection of spin-two fields intermediated by a  massive Rarita-Schwinger field	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:C. Bizdadea, E. M. Cioroianu, D. Cornea, S. O. Saliu, S. C. Sararu	 Abstract: The cross-couplings among several massless spin-two fields (described in the free limit by a sum of Pauli-Fierz actions) in the presence of a massive Rarita-Schwinger field are investigated in the framework of the deformation theory based on local BRST cohomology. Under the hypotheses of locality, smoothness of the interactions in the coupling constant, Poincare invariance, Lorentz covariance, and the preservation of the number of derivatives on each field, we prove that there are no consistent cross-interactions among different gravitons with a positively defined metric in internal space in the presence of a massive Rarita-Schwinger field. The basic features of the couplings between a single Pauli-Fierz field and a massive Rarita-Schwinger field are also emphasized. 
0704.02335	Sulphur abundances from the SI near-infrared triplet at 1045 nm	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Elisabetta Caffau (GEPI), Rosanna Faraggiana (DAUT), Piercarlo Bonifacio (GEPI, CIFIST, OAT), Hans-G. Ludwig (GEPI, CIFIST), Matthias Steffen (AIP)	 Abstract: context : Unlike silicon and calcium, sulphur is an alpha-element which does not form dust. Some of the available observations of the evolution of sulphur with metallicity indicate an increased scatter of sulphur to iron ratios at low metallicities or even a bimodal distribution, with some stars showing constant S/Fe at all metallicities and others showing an increasing S/Fe ratio with decreasing metallicity. In metal-poor stars SI lines of Multiplet 1 at 920 nm are not yet too weak to permit to measure the sulphur abundance A(S), however in ground-based observations they are severely affected by telluric lines. aims : We investigate the possibility to measure sulphur abundances from SI Mult. 3 at 1045 nm lines, which lie in the near infra-red. These are slightly weaker than those of Mult. 1, but lie in a range not affected by telluric lines. method We investigate the lines of Mult.3 in the Sun (G2V), Procyon (F5V), HD 33256 (F5V), HD 25069 (G9V) and epsilon Eri (HD 22049, K2V). For the Sun and Procyon the analysis has been performed with CO5BOLD 3D hydrodynamical model atmospheres, for the other three stars, for which hydrodynamical simulations are not available, the analysis has been performed using 1D model atmospheres. results For our sample of stars we find a global agreement of A(S) from lines of different multiplets. conclusions : Our results suggest that the infrared lines of Mult. 3 are a viable indicator of the sulphur abundance which, because of the intrinsic strength of this multiplet, should be suitable to study the trend of [S/Fe] at low metallicities. 
0704.02336	Competition between unconventional superconductivity and incommensurate  antiferromagnetic order in CeRh1-xCoxIn5	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:S. Ohira-Kawamura, H. Shishido, A. Yoshida, R. Okazaki, H. Kawano-Furukawa, T. Shibauchi, H. Harima, Y. Matsuda	 Abstract: Elastic neutron diffraction measurements were performed on the quasi-two dimensional heavy fermion system CeRh1-xCoxIn5, ranging from an incommensurate antiferromagnet for low x to an unconventional superconductor on the Co-rich end of the phase diagram. We found that the superconductivity competes with the incommensurate antiferromagnetic (AFM) order characterized by qI=(1/2, 1/2, delta) with delta=0.298, while it coexists with the commensurate AFM order with qc=(1/2, 1/2, 1/2). This is in sharp contrast to the CeRh1-xIrxIn5 system, where both the commensurate and incommensurate magnetic orders coexist with the superconductivity. These results reveal that particular areas on the Fermi surface nested by qI play an active role in forming the superconducting state in CeCoIn5. 
0704.02337	Existence of graphs with sub exponential transitions probability decay  and applications	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Clement Rau (LATP)	 Abstract: In this paper, we present a complete proof of the construction of graphs with bounded valency such that the simple random walk has a return probability at time $n$ at the origin of order $exp(-n^{\alpha}),$ for fixed $\alpha \in [0,1[$ and with Folner function $exp(n^{\frac{2\alpha}{1-\alpha}})$. We begin by giving a more detailled proof of this result contained in (see \cite{ershdur}). In the second part, we give an application of the existence of such graphs. We obtain bounds of the correct order for some functional of the local time of a simple random walk on an infinite cluster on the percolation model. 
0704.02338	INTEGRAL and Multiwavelength Observations of the Blazar Mrk 421 during  an Active Phase	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G. G. Lichti, E. Bottacini, P. Charlot, W. Collmar, D. Horan, A. von Kienlin, A. Laehteenmaeki, K. Nilsson, D. Petry, A. Sillanpaeae, M. Tornikoski, T. Weekes	 Abstract: A ToO observation of the TeV-emitting blazar Mrk 421 with INTEGRAL was triggered in June 2006 by an increase of the RXTE count rate to more than 30 mCrab. The source was then observed with all INTEGRAL instruments with the exception of the spectrometer SPI for a total exposure of 829 ks. During this time several outbursts were observed by IBIS and JEM-X. Multiwavelength observations were immediately triggered and the source was observed at radio, optical and X-ray wavelengths up to TeV energies. The data obtained during these observations are analysed with respect to spectral evolution and correlated variability. Preliminary results of the analysis are presented in this poster. 
0704.02339	Scale invariant quantum potential leading to globally self-trapped wave  function in Madelung fluid	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Agung Budiyono	 Abstract: We show in spatially one dimensional Madelung fluid that a simple requirement on local stability of the maximum of quantum probability density will, if combined with the global scale invariance of quantum potential, lead to a class of quantum probability densities globally being self-trapped by their own self-generated quantum potentials, possessing only a finite-size spatial support. It turns out to belong to a class of the most probable wave function given its energy through the maximum entropy principle. We proceed to show that there is a limiting case in which the quantum probability density becomes the stationary-moving soliton-like solution of the Schr\"odinger equation. 
0704.02340	Probing the Nuclear Symmetry Energy with Heavy-Ion Reactions Induced by  Neutron-Rich Nuclei	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Lie-Wen Chen, Che Ming Ko, Bao-An Li, Gao-Chan Yong	 Abstract: Heavy-ion reactions induced by neutron-rich nuclei provide a unique means to investigate the equation of state of isospin-asymmetric nuclear matter, especially the density dependence of the nuclear symmetry energy. In particular, recent analyses of the isospin diffusion data in heavy-ion reactions have already put a stringent constraint on the nuclear symmetry energy around the nuclear matter saturation density. We review this exciting result and discuss its implications on nuclear effective interactions and the neutron skin thickness of heavy nuclei. In addition, we also review the theoretical progress on probing the high density behaviors of the nuclear symmetry energy in heavy-ion reactions induced by high energy radioactive beams. 
0704.02341	On Gauged Renormalisation Group Transformations of Lattice Fermions	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:Artan Borici	 Abstract: We construct a hierarchy of lattice fermions, where the coarser lattice Dirac operator is the Schur complement of the block UL decomposition of the finer lattice operator. We show that the construction is an exact gauged renormalisation group transformation of the lattice action. In particular, using such a transformation and the QCDLAB tool, it is shown how to implement the Ginsparg-Wilson strategy for chiral fermions in the presence of a dynamical gauge field. The scheme allows, for the first time, a full multigrid algorithm for lattice quarks. 
0704.02342	Variations in the lithium abundances of turn off stars in the globular  cluster 47 Tuc	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Piercarlo Bonifacio (CIFIST, GEPI, OAT), Luca Pasquini (ESO), Paolo Molaro (OAT), Eugenio Carretta (OABO), Patrick François (GEPI), Raffaele G. Gratton (OAPD), Gael James (ESO), Luca Sbordone (CIFIST, GEPI, OAT), François Spite (GEPI), Manuela Zoccali (DA PUC CHILE)	 Abstract: aims: Our aim is to determine Li abundances in TO stars of the Globular Cluster 47 Tuc and test theories about Li variations among TO stars. method: We make use of high resolution (R~ 43000), high signal-to-noise ratio (S/N=50--70) spectra of 4 turn off (TO) stars obtained with the UVES spectrograph at the 8.2m VLT Kueyen telescope. results: The four stars observed, span the range 1.6<~A(Li)} <~ 2.14, providing a mean A(Li) = 1.84 with a standard deviation of 0.25 dex. When coupled with data of other two TO stars of the cluster, available in the literature, the full range in Li abundances observed in this cluster is 1.6<~A(Li)<~ 2.3. The variation in A(Li) is at least 0.6 dex (0.7 dex considering also the data available in the literature) and the scatter is six times larger than what expected from the observational error. We claim that these variations are real. A(Li) seems to be anti-correlated with A(Na) exactly as observed in NGC 6752. No systematic error in our analysis could produce such an anti-correlation. conclusions: Na production through p captures on 22Ne at temperatures in excess of 3x10^7 K and the contemporary Li destruction could result in this anti-correlation. However such nuclear processing cannot have taken place in the stars themselves, which do not reach such high temperatures, even at their centre. This points towards the processing in a previous generation of stars. The low N/O ratios in the observed stars and the apparent lack of correlation between N an Li abundances, place a strong constraint on the properties of this previous generation. Our results indicate a different behaviour among the Globular Clusters so far studied as far as the abundance patterns are concerned. 
0704.02343	A Luttinger Liquid Coupled to a Quantum Spin Bath: Flow Equation  Approach to the Kondo Necklace Model	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:F. H. L. Essler, T. Kuzmenko, I. A. Zaliznyak	 Abstract: We study a lattice realization of a Luttinger liquid interacting with a bath of quantum spins in terms of an antiferromagnetic S=1/2 Heisenberg chain, where each spin is also coupled to a \sigma=1/2 Kondo spin degree of freedom. This model describes the low-energy spin dynamics in quasi one dimensional materials, where the electronic spins of the magnetic ions interact with those of impurities, nuclei and possibly other spin species present in their environment. For large ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic Kondo interaction J' there are two phases corresponding to an effective spin-1 Heisenberg chain and a dimerised spin-1/2 ladder, respectively. For weak Kondo interaction we establish that the Kondo interaction drives the system to a strong coupling regime. This suggests that J'=0 is the only critical point in the system. 
0704.02344	Parallel computing for the finite element method	Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)	Authors:Christian Vollaire (CEGELY), Laurent Nicolas (CEGELY), Alain Nicolas (CEGELY)	 Abstract: A finite element method is presented to compute time harmonic microwave fields in three dimensional configurations. Nodal-based finite elements have been coupled with an absorbing boundary condition to solve open boundary problems. This paper describes how the modeling of large devices has been made possible using parallel computation, New algorithms are then proposed to implement this formulation on a cluster of workstations (10 DEC ALPHA 300X) and on a CRAY C98. Analysis of the computation efficiency is performed using simple problems. The electromagnetic scattering of a plane wave by a perfect electric conducting airplane is finally given as example. 
0704.02345	On Predicting the Solar Cycle using Mean-Field Models	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Paul J. Bushby, Steven M. Tobias	 Abstract: We discuss the difficulties of predicting the solar cycle using mean-field models. Here we argue that these difficulties arise owing to the significant modulation of the solar activity cycle, and that this modulation arises owing to either stochastic or deterministic processes. We analyse the implications for predictability in both of these situations by considering two separate solar dynamo models. The first model represents a stochastically-perturbed flux transport dynamo. Here even very weak stochastic perturbations can give rise to significant modulation in the activity cycle. This modulation leads to a loss of predictability. In the second model, we neglect stochastic effects and assume that generation of magnetic field in the Sun can be described by a fully deterministic nonlinear mean-field model -- this is a best case scenario for prediction. We designate the output from this deterministic model (with parameters chosen to produce chaotically modulated cycles) as a target timeseries that subsequent deterministic mean-field models are required to predict. Long-term prediction is impossible even if a model that is correct in all details is utilised in the prediction. Furthermore, we show that even short-term prediction is impossible if there is a small discrepancy in the input parameters from the fiducial model. This is the case even if the predicting model has been tuned to reproduce the output of previous cycles. Given the inherent uncertainties in determining the transport coefficients and nonlinear responses for mean-field models, we argue that this makes predicting the solar cycle using the output from such models impossible. 
0704.02346	Transition on the entropic elasticity of DNA induced by intercalating  molecules	Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)	Authors:M. S. Rocha, M. C. Ferreira, O. N. Mesquita	 Abstract: We use optical tweezers to perform stretching experiments on DNA molecules when interacting with the drugs daunomycin and ethidium bromide, which intercalate the DNA molecule. These experiments are performed in the low-force regime from zero up to 2 pN. Our results show that the persistence length of the DNA-drug complexes increases strongly as the drug concentration increases up to some critical value. Above this critical value, the persistence length decreases abruptly and remains practically constant for larger drug concentrations. The contour length of the molecules increases monotonically and saturates as drugs concentration increases. Measured in- tercalants critical concentrations for the persistence length transition coincide with reported values for the helix-coil transition of DNA-drug complexes, obtained from sedimentation experiments. 
0704.02347	Revival-collapse phenomenon in the quadrature squeezing of the  multiphoton Jaynes-Cummings model with the binomial states	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Faisal A. A. El-Orany	 Abstract: In this paper we study the interaction between two-level atom and quantized single-mode field, namely, Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM). The field and the atom are initially prepared in the binomial state and the excited atomic state, respectively. For this system we prove that the revival-collapse phenomenon exhibited in the atomic inversion of the standard JCM can be numerically (naturally) manifested in the evolution of the squeezing factor of the three-photon (standard) JCM provided that the initial photon-number distribution of the radiation has a smooth envelope. 
0704.02348	Bound Polaron in CuCl and GaAs Quantum Dots	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:H. Satori, M. Harti, N. Chenfour, F. Assaoui	 Abstract: We calculated the binding energy of a polaron bound to a hydrogenic donor impurity located in a spherical quantum dot by means of a variational and numerical technique for finite potential models. The polaronic effect has been considered taking into account the ion-phonon coupling under the Lee Low Pines approach. The results show that the binding energies are drastically affected by the dot radius, the potential barrier height and the polaronic effects. 
0704.02349	Quantum Master Equation for QED in Exact Renormalization Group	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Yuji Igarashi, Katsumi Itoh, Hidenori Sonoda	 Abstract: Recently, one of us (H.S.) gave an explicit form of the Ward-Takahashi identity for the Wilson action of QED. We first rederive the identity using a functional method. The identity makes it possible to realize the gauge symmetry even in the presence of a momentum cutoff. In the cutoff dependent realization, the abelian nature of the gauge symmetry is lost, breaking the nilpotency of the BRS transformation. Using the Batalin-Vilkovisky formalism, we extend the Wilson action by including the antifield contributions. Then, the Ward-Takahashi identity for the Wilson action is lifted to a quantum master equation, and the modified BRS transformation regains nilpotency. We also obtain a flow equation for the extended Wilson action. 
0704.02350	The time evolution of cosmological redshift as a test of dark energy	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Balbi, C. Quercellini	 Abstract: The variation of the expansion rate of the Universe with time produces an evolution in the cosmological redshift of distant sources (for example quasar Lyman-$\alpha$ absorption lines), that might be directly observed by future ultra stable, high-resolution spectrographs (such as CODEX) coupled to extremely large telescopes (such as European Southern Observatory's Extremely Large Telescope, ELT). This would open a new window to explore the physical mechanism responsible for the current acceleration of the Universe. We investigate the evolution of cosmological redshift from a variety of dark energy models, and compare it with simulated data. We perform a Fisher matrix analysis and discuss the prospects for constraining the parameters of these models and for discriminating among competing candidates. We find that, because of parameter degeneracies, and of the inherent technical difficulties involved in this kind of observations, the uncertainties on parameter reconstruction can be rather large unless strong external priors are assumed. However, the method could be a valuable complementary cosmological tool, and give important insights on the dynamics of dark energy, not obtainable using other probes. 
0704.02351	Parallel computation of the rank of large sparse matrices from algebraic  K-theory	K-Theory and Homology (math.KT)	Authors:Jean-Guillaume Dumas (LMC - IMAG), Philippe Elbaz-Vincent (I3M), Pascal Giorgi (LP2A), Anna Urbanska (LMC - IMAG)	 Abstract: This paper deals with the computation of the rank and of some integer Smith forms of a series of sparse matrices arising in algebraic K-theory. The number of non zero entries in the considered matrices ranges from 8 to 37 millions. The largest rank computation took more than 35 days on 50 processors. We report on the actual algorithms we used to build the matrices, their link to the motivic cohomology and the linear algebra and parallelizations required to perform such huge computations. In particular, these results are part of the first computation of the cohomology of the linear group GL_7(Z). 
0704.02352	A 2D quantum antiferromagnet with a four-fold degenerate  valence-bond-solid ground state	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Alain Gellé (EPFL), Andreas Läuchli (IRMA), Brijesh Kumar, Frédéric Mila (EPFL)	 Abstract: We study the competition between antiferromagnetic order and valence bond solid formation in a two-dimensional frustrated spin-1/2 model. The J1-J2 model on the square lattice is further frustrated by introducing products of three-spin projectors which stabilize four dimer-product states as degenerate ground states. These four states are reminiscent of the dimerized singlet ground state of the Shastry-Sutherland model. Using exact diagonalizations, we study the evolution of the ground state by varying theratio of interactions. For a large range of parameters (J2 > 0.25J1), our model shows a direct transition between the valence-bond-solid phase and the collinear antiferromagnetic phase. For small values of J2, several intermediate phases appear which are also analyzed. 
0704.02353	Scaling Laws of Cognitive Networks	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Mai Vu, Natasha Devroye, Masoud Sharif, Vahid Tarokh	 Abstract: We consider a cognitive network consisting of n random pairs of cognitive transmitters and receivers communicating simultaneously in the presence of multiple primary users. Of interest is how the maximum throughput achieved by the cognitive users scales with n. Furthermore, how far these users must be from a primary user to guarantee a given primary outage. Two scenarios are considered for the network scaling law: (i) when each cognitive transmitter uses constant power to communicate with a cognitive receiver at a bounded distance away, and (ii) when each cognitive transmitter scales its power according to the distance to a considered primary user, allowing the cognitive transmitter-receiver distances to grow. Using single-hop transmission, suitable for cognitive devices of opportunistic nature, we show that, in both scenarios, with path loss larger than 2, the cognitive network throughput scales linearly with the number of cognitive users. We then explore the radius of a primary exclusive region void of cognitive transmitters. We obtain bounds on this radius for a given primary outage constraint. These bounds can help in the design of a primary network with exclusive regions, outside of which cognitive users may transmit freely. Our results show that opportunistic secondary spectrum access using single-hop transmission is promising. 
0704.02354	A study of the size of snow particles in powder snow avalanches	Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)	Authors:Marie Rastello	 Abstract: In this work, we study the size of the particles involved in a powder snow avalanche phenomenon. To determine these sizes, we study all the phenomena the particles have to face before arriving in the "body" of the avalanche. We study the boundary layer which is at the bottom of the avalanche. We determine, with the help of experimental data, the range of size of the particles that can be entrained by the avalanche. We then examine the possibility for these particles to reach the top of the boundary layer, and so to take part in the avalanche. Our final result is that the more frequent particles suspended in a powder snow avalanche have a size lower than 200 micrometers. 
0704.02355	A Nice Labelling for Tree-Like Event Structures of Degree 3	Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)	Authors:Luigi Santocanale (LIF)	 Abstract: We address the problem of &#64257;nding nice labellings for event structures of degree 3. We develop a minimum theory by which we prove that the labelling number of an event structure of degree 3 is bounded by a linear function of the height. The main theorem we present in this paper states that event structures of degree 3 whose causality order is a tree have a nice labelling with 3 colors. Finally, we exemplify how to use this theorem to construct upper bounds for the labelling number of other event structures of degree 3. 
0704.02356	Experimental Results and Analytical Predictions of EHL Film Thickness	Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)	Authors:Chaomleffel Jean Pierre (LaMCoS), Dalmaz Gérard (LaMCoS), Philippe Vergne (LaMCoS)	 Abstract: In this work, we consider several types of lubricants - including non-Newtonian fluids - that were studied under various operating conditions leading us to explore a wide range of dimensionless parameters. The experimental results are compared with predictions given by the usual analytical EHL relationships and by more recently developed models. This broad comparison conducted with particular emphasis on minimum film thickness (hm) showed a fair agreement between experimental data and a few predictions including some obtained from extended models. Commonly used elasto-hydrodynamic lubrication (EHL) models did not systematically gave accurate hm estimation, whereas minimum film thickness not only is a yield value but also serves as a key parameter in estimating lubrication regimes. 
0704.02357	A new class of rank one transformations with singular spectrum	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:El Houcein El Abdalaoui (LMRS)	 Abstract: We introduce a new tool to study the spectral type of rank one transformations using the method of central limit theorem for trigonometric sums. We get some new applications. 
0704.02358	Density of states and supercurrent in diffusive SNS junctions: role of  nonideal interfaces and spin-flip scattering	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:J.C. Hammer, J.C. Cuevas, F.S. Bergeret, W. Belzig	 Abstract: We present a theoretical study of the density of states and supercurrent in diffusive superconductor-normal metal-superconductor (SNS) junctions. In particular, we study the influence on these two equilibrium properties of both an arbitrary transparency of the SN interfaces and the presence of spin-flip scattering in the normal wire. We show that the minigap that is present in the spectrum of the diffusive wire is very sensitive to the interface transmission. More mportantly, we show that at arbitrary transparency the minigap replaces the Thouless energy as the relevant energy scale for the proximity effect, determining for instance the temperature dependence of the critical current. We also study in detail how the critical current is suppressed by the effect of spin-flip scattering, which can be due to either magnetic impurities or, under certain circumstances, to an external magnetic field. Our analysis based on the quasiclassical theory of diffusive superconductors can be very valuable to establish quantitative comparisons between experiment and theory. 
0704.02359	Navier-Stokes equations with periodic boundary conditions and pressure  loss	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Chérif Amrouche (LMA - Pau), Macaire Batchi (LMA - Pau, Latep), Jean Batina (LATEP)	 Abstract: We present in this note the existence and uniqueness results for the Stokes and Navier-Stokes equations which model the laminar flow of an incompressible fluid inside a two-dimensional channel of periodic sections. The data of the pressure loss coefficient enables us to establish a relation on the pressure and to thus formulate an equivalent problem. 
0704.02360	Reproductive strong solutions of Navier-Stokes equations with non  homogeneous boundary conditions	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Chérif Amrouche (LMA - Pau), Macaire Batchi (LMA - Pau, Latep), Jean Batina (LATEP)	 Abstract: The object of the present paper is to show the existence and the uniqueness of a reproductive strong solution of the Navier-Stokes equations, i.e. the solution $\boldsymbol{u} $ belongs to $\text{}\mathbf{L}% ^{\infty}(0,T;V) \cap \mathbf{L}^{2}(0,T;\mathbf{H}% ^{2}(\Omega))$ and satisfies the property $\boldsymbol{u}% (\boldsymbol{x,}T) =\boldsymbol{u}% (\boldsymbol{x,}0) =\boldsymbol{u}_{0}(\boldsymbol{x})$. One considers the case of an incompressible fluid in two dimensions with nonhomogeneous boundary conditions, and external forces are neglected. 
0704.02361	Solutions fortes de l'équation de l'énergie	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Chérif Amrouche (LMA - Pau), Macaire Batchi (LMA - Pau, Latep), Jean Batina (LATEP)	 Abstract: In this paper, we give some existence results of stong solutions for the energy equation associated to the Navier-Stokes equations with nonhomogeneous boundary conditions in two dimension. 
0704.02362	On Brownian flights	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Athanasios Batakis (MAPMO), Pierre Levitz (PMC), Michel Zinsmeister (PMC, MAPMO)	 Abstract: Let K be a compact subset of ${\mathbb R}^n$. We choose at random with uniform law a point at distance $\epsilon$ of K and start a Brownian motion (BM) from this point. We study the probability that this BM hits K for the first time at a distance $\geq r$ from the starting point. 
0704.02363	Energy solutions for polymer aqueous solutions in two dimension	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Chérif Amrouche (LMA - PAU), El-Hacene E.H Ouazar	 Abstract: The aim of this article is to study a nonlinear system modeling a Non-Newtonian fluid of polymer aqueous solutions. We are interested here in the existence of weak solutions for the stationary problem in a bounded plane domain or in two-dimensional exterior domain. Due to the third order of derivatives in the non-linear term, it's difficult to obtain solution satisfying energy inequality. But with a good choice of boundary conditions, an adapt special basis and the use of the good properties of the trilinear form associated to the non-linear term, we obtain energy solutions. The problem in bounded domain is treated and the more difficult problem on non bounded domain too. 
0704.02364	Yield design formulation for porous media subjected to flow, using  approximate pressure field. Calcul à la rupture en présence d'un  écoulement : formulation cinématique avec un champ de pression approché	Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)	Authors:Alain Corfdir (ENPC-Cermes)	 Abstract: Yield design formulation for porous media subjected to flow, using approximate pressure field. We attempt here to use the kinematic method of yield design in the case of a porous medium subjected to flow (with or without free surface), without looking for the exact solution of the pressure field. The method proposed here is based on the use of approximate pressure fields. In this paper, we show how, under different conditions concerning the yield criterion and the velocity field, the use of such approximate fields allows to obtain a necessary condition for stability without having to find the real pressure field. Nous cherchons ici \`a utiliser la m\'ethode cin\'ematique du calcul \`a la rupture dans le cas d'un milieu poreux soumis \`a un \'ecoulement avec ou sans surface libre sans conna\^itre la solution exacte du champ de pression. La m\'ethode propos\'ee ici repose sur l'utilisation de champs de pression approch\'es par d\'efaut. Nous montrerons comment sous certaines conditions portant sur le crit\`ere de r\'esistance et sur le champ de vitesse utilis\'e, l'utilisation de tels champs de pression approch\'es permet d'obtenir une condition n\'ecessaire de stabilit\'e sans avoir \`a d\'eterminer exactement l'\'ecoulement. 
0704.02365	Neutron Beta Decay: Status and Future of the Asymmetry Measurement	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:Takeyasu M. Ito	 Abstract: With more intense sources of cold and ultracold neutrons becoming available and with improved experimental techniques being developed, determination of |Vud| from neutron beta decay with a similar precision to that from from superallowed beta decays is within reach. Determination of |Vud| from neutron beta decay, free from nuclear corrections, hold the most promise for a further improvement of the determination of |Vud|. The current and future neutron beta decay correlation experiments including the UCNA experiment at Los Alamos National Laboratory are reviewed 
0704.02366	Analogy electromagnetism-acoustics: Validation and application to local  impedance active control for sound absorption	Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)	Authors:Laurent Nicolas (CEGELY), M. Furstoss (LMFA), Marie-Annick Galland (LMFA)	 Abstract: An analogy between electromagnetism and acoustics is presented in 2D. The propagation of sound in presence of absorbing material is modeled using an open boundary microwave package. Validation is performed through analytical and experimental results. Application to local impedance active control for free field sound absorption is finally described. 
0704.02367	Coupled Painlevé VI systems in dimension four with affine Weyl group  symmetry of type $D_6^{(1)}$, II	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yusuke Sasano	 Abstract: We give a reformulation of a six-parameter family of coupled Painlev\'e VI systems with affine Weyl group symmetry of type $D_6^{(1)}$ from the viewpoint of its symmetry and holomorphy properties. 
0704.02368	Lightest scalar in the SU_L(2)*SU_R(2) linear σmodel	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:N. N. Achasov, G. N. Shestakov	 Abstract: We consider the lightest scalar meson in the frame of the $SU_L(2)\times SU_R(2)$ linear $\sigma$ model, keeping in mind that this model could be the low energy realization of the two-flavour QCD. We show that the $\sigma$ field is described by its four-quark component at least in the $\sigma$ resonance energy (virtuality) region and the $\sigma\to\gamma\gamma$ decay is the four quark transition. We emphasize that residues of the $\sigma$ pole in the $\pi\pi\to\pi\pi$ and $\gamma\gamma\to\pi\pi$ amplitudes do not give an idea about the $\sigma$ meson nature, and the progress in studying the $\sigma$ meson production mechanisms in different processes could essentially further us in understanding its nature. 
0704.02369	Geometric gradient-flow dynamics with singular solutions	Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO)	Authors:Darryl D. Holm, Vakhtang Putkaradze, Cesare Tronci	 Abstract: The gradient-flow dynamics of an arbitrary geometric quantity is derived using a generalization of Darcy's Law. We consider flows in both Lagrangian and Eulerian formulations. The Lagrangian formulation includes a dissipative modification of fluid mechanics. Eulerian equations for self-organization of scalars, 1-forms and 2-forms are shown to reduce to nonlocal characteristic equations. We identify singular solutions of these equations corresponding to collapsed (clumped) states and discuss their evolution. 
0704.02370	Effect of flux-dependent Friedel oscillations upon the effective  transmission of an interacting nano-system	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Axel Freyn (SPEC), Jean-Louis Pichard (SPEC)	 Abstract: We consider a nano-system connected to measurement probes via non interacting leads. When the electrons interact inside the nano-system, the coefficient |ts(E_F)|^2 describing its effective transmission at the Fermi energy E_F ceases to be local. This effect of electron-electron interactions upon |ts(E_F)|^2 is studied using a one dimensional model of spinless fermions and the Hartree-Fock approximation. The non locality of |ts(E_F)|^2 is due to the coupling between the Hartree and Fock corrections inside the nano-system and the scatterers outside the nano-system via long range Friedel oscillations. Using this phenomenon, one can vary |ts(E_F)|^2 by an Aharonov-Bohm flux threading a ring which is attached to one lead at a distance Lc from the nano-system. For small distances Lc, the variation of the quantum conductance induced by this non local effect can exceed 0.1 (e^2/h). 
0704.02371	Molecular Dynamics Study of a Thermal Expansion Coefficient: Ti Bulk  with an Elastic Minimum Image Method	Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)	Authors:Yakup Hundur, Rainer Hippler, Ziya B. Guvenc	 Abstract: Linear thermal expansion coefficient (TEC) and specific heat of Ti bulk is investigated by means of molecular dynamics simulation. Elastic Minimum Image Convention of periodic boundary conditions is introduced to allow the bulk to adjust its size according to the new temporarily fixed temperature. The TEC and the specific heat of Ti are compared to the available theoretical and experimental data. 
0704.02372	Asymptotics of the fast diffusion equation via entropy estimates	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Adrien Blanchet, Matteo Bonforte, Jean Dolbeault (CEREMADE), Gabriele Grillo, Juan-Luis Vázquez	 Abstract: We consider non-negative solutions of the fast diffusion equation $u_t=\Delta u^m$ with $m \in (0,1)$, in the Euclidean space R^d, d?3, and study the asymptotic behavior of a natural class of solutions, in the limit corresponding to $t\to\infty$ for $m\ge m_c=(d-2)/d$, or as t approaches the extinction time when m < mc. For a class of initial data we prove that the solution converges with a polynomial rate to a self-similar solution, for t large enough if $m\ge m_c$, or close enough to the extinction time if m < mc. Such results are new in the range $m\le m_c$ where previous approaches fail. In the range mc < m < 1 we improve on known results. 
0704.02373	Mixing-demixing transition and collapse of a vortex state in a  quasi-two-dimensional boson-fermion mixture	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Sadhan K. Adhikari, Luca Salasnich	 Abstract: We investigate the mixing-demixing transition and the collapse in a quasi-two-dimensional degenerate boson-fermion mixture (DBFM) with a bosonic vortex. We solve numerically a quantum-hydrodynamic model based on a new density functional which accurately takes into account the dimensional crossover. It is demonstrated that with the increase of interspecies repulsion, a mixed state of DBFM could turn into a demixed state. The system collapses for interspecies attraction above a critical value which depends on the vortex quantum number. For interspecies attraction just below this critical limit there is almost complete mixing of boson and fermion components. Such mixed and demixed states of a DBFM could be experimentally realized by varying an external magnetic field near a boson-fermion Feshbach resonance, which will result in a continuous variation of interspecies interaction. 
0704.02374	Growing Directed Networks: Estimation and Hypothesis Testing	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Daniel Fraiman	 Abstract: Based only on the information gathered in a snapshot of a directed network, we present a formal way of checking if the proposed model is correct for the empirical growing network under study. In particular, we show how to estimate the attractiveness, and present an application of the model presented in [arxiv:0704.1847] to the scientific publications network from the ISI dataset. 
0704.02375	Power control algorithms for CDMA networks based on large system  analysis	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Stefano Buzzi, H. Vincent Poor	 Abstract: Power control is a fundamental task accomplished in any wireless cellular network; its aim is to set the transmit power of any mobile terminal, so that each user is able to achieve its own target SINR. While conventional power control algorithms require knowledge of a number of parameters of the signal of interest and of the multiaccess interference, in this paper it is shown that in a large CDMA system much of this information can be dispensed with, and effective distributed power control algorithms may be implemented with very little information on the user of interest. An uplink CDMA system subject to flat fading is considered with a focus on the cases in which a linear MMSE receiver and a non-linear MMSE serial interference cancellation receiver are adopted; for the latter case new formulas are also given for the system SINR in the large system asymptote. Experimental results show an excellent agreement between the performance and the power profile of the proposed distributed algorithms and that of conventional ones that require much greater prior knowledge. 
0704.02376	Catalan Traffic and Integrals on the Grassmannians of Lines	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Taise Santiago Costa Oliveira	 Abstract: We prove that certain numbers occurring in a problem of paths enumeration, studied by Niederhausen (Catlan Traffic at the Beach, The Electronic Journal of Combinatorics, 9, (2002), 1--17), are top intersection numbers in the cohomology ring of the grassmannians of the lines in the complex projective (n+1)-space. 
0704.02377	A note on Seshadri constants on general $K3$ surfaces	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Andreas Leopold Knutsen	 Abstract: We prove a lower bound on the Seshadri constant $\epsilon (L)$ on a $K3$ surface $S$ with $\Pic S \simeq \ZZ[L]$. In particular, we obtain that $\epsilon (L)=\alpha$ if $L^2=\alpha^2$ for an integer $\alpha$. 
0704.02378	Extended centres of finitely generated prime algebras	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Jason P. Bell, Agata Smoktunowicz	 Abstract: Let $K$ be a field and let $A$ be a finitely generated prime $K$-algebra. We generalize a result of Smith and Zhang, showing that if $A$ is not PI and does not have a locally nilpotent ideal, then the extended centre of $A$ has transcendence degree at most ${\rm GKdim}(A)-2$ over $K$. As a consequence, we are able to show that if $A$ is a prime $K$-algebra of quadratic growth, then either the extended centre is a finite extension of K or $A$ is PI. Finally, we give an example of a finitely generated non-PI prime $K$-algebra of GK dimension 2 with a locally nilpotent ideal such that the extended centre has infinite transcendence degree over $K$. 
0704.02379	Fundamental-measure density functional for the fluid of aligned hard  hexagons: New insights in fundamental measure theory	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Jose A. Capitan, Jose A. Cuesta	 Abstract: In this article we obtain a fundamental measure functional for the model of aligned hard hexagons in the plane. Our aim is not just to provide a functional for a new, admittedly academic, model, but to investigate the structure of fundamental measure theory. A model of aligned hard hexagons has similarities with the hard disk model. Both share "lost cases", i.e. admit configurations of three particles in which there is pairwise overlap but not triple overlap. These configurations are known to be problematic for fundamental measure functionals, which are not able to capture their contribution correctly. This failure lies in the inability of these functionals to yield a correct low density limit of the third order direct correlation function. Here we derive the functional by projecting aligned hard cubes on the plane x+y+z=0. The correct dimensional crossover behavior of these functionals permits us to follow this strategy. The functional of aligned hard cubes, however, does not have lost cases, so neither had the resulting functional for aligned hard hexagons. The latter exhibits, in fact, a peculiar structure as compared to the one for hard disks. It depends on a uniparametric family of weighted densities through a new term not appearing in the functional for hard disks. Apart from studying the freezing of this system, we discuss the implications of the functional structure for new developments of fundamental measure theory. 
0704.02380	Local well-posedness of Musiela's SPDE with Lévy noise	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Carlo Marinelli	 Abstract: We determine sufficient conditions on the volatility coefficient of Musiela's stochastic partial differential equation driven by an infinite dimensional L{\'e}vy process so that it admits a unique local mild solution in spaces of functions whose first derivative is square integrable with respect to a weight. 
0704.02381	The prime spectrum of algebras of quadratic growth	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Jason P. Bell, Agata Smoktunowicz	 Abstract: We study prime algebras of quadratic growth. Our first result is that if $A$ is a prime monomial algebra of quadratic growth then $A$ has finitely many prime ideals $P$ such that $A/P$ has GK dimension one. This shows that prime monomial algebras of quadratic growth have bounded matrix images. We next show that a prime graded algebra of quadratic growth has the property that the intersection of the nonzero prime ideals $P$ such that $A/P$ has GK dimension 2 is non-empty, provided there is at least one such ideal. From this we conclude that a prime monomial algebra of quadratic growth is either primitive or has nonzero locally nilpotent Jacobson radical. Finally, we show that there exists a prime monomial algebra $A$ of GK dimension two with unbounded matrix images and thus the quadratic growth hypothesis is necessary to conclude that there are only finitely many prime ideals such that $A/P$ has GK dimension 1. 
0704.02382	Hadron spectroscopy from canonical partition functions	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:Z. Fodor (1 and 2 and 3), K. K. Szabo (1), B. C. Toth (1 and 2) ((1) University of Wuppertal, (2) Eotvos University, (3) University of California, San Diego)	 Abstract: A spectroscopic method for staggered fermions based on thermodynamical considerations is proposed. The canonical partition functions corresponding to the different quark number sectors are expressed in the low temperature limit as polynomials of the eigenvalues of the reduced fermion matrix. Taking the zero temperature limit yields the masses of the lowest states. The method is successfully applied to the Goldstone pion and both dynamical and quenched results are presented showing good agreement with that of standard spectroscopy. Though in principle the method can be used to obtain the baryon and dibaryon masses, due to their high computational costs such calculations are practically unreachable. 
0704.02383	Power control and receiver design for energy efficiency in multipath  CDMA channels with bandlimited waveforms	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Stefano Buzzi, Valeria Massaro, H. Vincent Poor	 Abstract: This paper is focused on the cross-layer design problem of joint multiuser detection and power control for energy-efficiency optimization in a wireless data network through a game-theoretic approach. Building on work of Meshkati, et al., wherein the tools of game-theory are used in order to achieve energy-efficiency in a simple synchronous code division multiple access system, system asynchronism, the use of bandlimited chip-pulses, and the multipath distortion induced by the wireless channel are explicitly incorporated into the analysis. Several non-cooperative games are proposed wherein users may vary their transmit power and their uplink receiver in order to maximize their utility, which is defined here as the ratio of data throughput to transmit power. In particular, the case in which a linear multiuser detector is adopted at the receiver is considered first, and then, the more challenging case in which non-linear decision feedback multiuser detectors are employed is considered. The proposed games are shown to admit a unique Nash equilibrium point, while simulation results show the effectiveness of the proposed solutions, as well as that the use of a decision-feedback multiuser receiver brings remarkable performance improvements. 
0704.02384	Fusion algebras with negative structure constants	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Michael Cuntz	 Abstract: We introduce fusion algebras with not necessarily positive structure constants and without identity element. We prove that they are semisimple when tensored with $\mathbb{C}$ and that their characters satisfy orthogonality relations. Then we define the proper notion of subrings and factor rings for such algebras. For certain algebras $R$ we prove the existence of a ring $R'$ with nonnegative structure constants such that $R$ is a factor ring of $R'$. We give some examples of interesting factor rings of the representation ring of the quantum double of a finite group. Then, we investigate the algebras associated to Hadamard matrices. For an $n\times n$-matrix the corresponding algebra is a factor ring of a subalgebra of $\mathbb{Z}[{(\mathbb{Z}/2\mathbb{Z})}^{n-2}]$. 
0704.02385	Lattice QCD study of a five-quark hadronic molecule	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:M. S. Cook, H. R. Fiebig	 Abstract: We compute the ground-state energies of a heavy-light K-Lambda like system as a function of the relative distance r of the hadrons. The heavy quarks, one in each hadron, are treated as static. Then, the energies give rise to an adiabatic potential Va(r) which we use to study the structure of the five-quark system. The simulation is based on an anisotropic and asymmetric lattice with Wilson fermions. Energies are extracted from spectral density functions obtained with the maximum entropy method. Our results are meant to give qualitative insight: Using the resulting adiabatic potential in a Schroedinger equation produces bound state wave functions which indicate that the ground state of the five-quark system resembles a hadronic molecule, whereas the first excited state, having a very small rms radius, is probably better described as a five-quark cluster, or a pentaquark. We hypothesize that an all light-quark pentaquark may not exist, but in the heavy-quark sector it might, albeit only as an excited state. 
0704.02386	Bounded Pushdown dimension vs Lempel Ziv information density	Computational Complexity (cs.CC)	Authors:Pilar Albert, Elvira Mayordomo, Philippe Moser	 Abstract: In this paper we introduce a variant of pushdown dimension called bounded pushdown (BPD) dimension, that measures the density of information contained in a sequence, relative to a BPD automata, i.e. a finite state machine equipped with an extra infinite memory stack, with the additional requirement that every input symbol only allows a bounded number of stack movements. BPD automata are a natural real-time restriction of pushdown automata. We show that BPD dimension is a robust notion by giving an equivalent characterization of BPD dimension in terms of BPD compressors. We then study the relationships between BPD compression, and the standard Lempel-Ziv (LZ) compression algorithm, and show that in contrast to the finite-state compressor case, LZ is not universal for bounded pushdown compressors in a strong sense: we construct a sequence that LZ fails to compress signicantly, but that is compressed by at least a factor 2 by a BPD compressor. As a corollary we obtain a strong separation between finite-state and BPD dimension. 
0704.02387	Constraints on supernova progenitors from spatial correlations with  H-alpha emission	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J.P. Anderson, P.A. James, M. Salaris, S.M. Percival	 Abstract: We have attempted to constrain the progenitors of all supernova types, through correlations of the positions of historical supernovae with recent star formation, as traced by H-alpha emission. Through pixel statistics we have found that a large fraction of the SNII population do not show any association with current star formation, which we put down to a 'runaway' fraction of these progenitors. The SNIb/c population accurately traces the H-alpha emission, with some suggestion that the SNIc progenitors show a higher degree of correlation than the SNIb, suggesting higher mass progenitors for the former. Overall the SNIa population only show a weak correlation to the positions of HII regions, but as many as a half may be associated with a young stellar population. 
0704.02388	L'indice de Maslov dans les $JB^*$-triples	General Mathematics (math.GM)	Authors:Stephane Merigon (IECN)	 Abstract: We construct a homotopy invariant index for pathes in the set of invertible tripotents in a JB*-triple that satisfy a Fredholm type condition with respect to a fixed invertible tripotent. That index generalizes the Maslov index in the Fredholm-Lagrangian of a symplectic Hilbert space. 
0704.02389	Semiclassical Quantization of the Giant Magnon	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Georgios Papathanasiou, Marcus Spradlin	 Abstract: Solitons in field theory provide a window into regimes not directly accessible by the fundamental perturbative degrees of freedom. Motivated by interest in the worldsheet S-matrix of string theory in AdS_5 x S^5 in the limit of infinite worldsheet volume we consider the semiclassical quantization of a particular soliton of this theory: the Hofman-Maldacena `giant magnon' spinning string. We obtain explicit formulas for the complete spectrum of bosonic and fermionic fluctuations around the giant magnon. As an application of these results we confirm that the one-loop correction to the classical energy vanishes as expected. 
0704.02390	Neglecting the porosity of hot-star winds can lead to underestimating  mass-loss rates	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:L. M. Oskinova, W.-R. Hamann, A. Feldmeier	 Abstract: Context: The mass-loss rate is a key parameter of massive stars. Adequate stellar atmosphere models are required for spectral analyses and mass-loss determinations. Present models can only account for the inhomogeneity of stellar winds in the approximation of small-scale structures that are optically thin. This treatment of ``microclumping'' has led to reducing empirical mass-loss rates by factors of two and more. Aims: Stellar wind clumps can be optically thick in spectral lines. We investigate how this ``macroclumping'' impacts on empirical mass-loss rates. Methods: The Potsdam Wolf-Rayet (PoWR) model atmosphere code is generalized in the ``formal integral'' to account for clumps that are not necessarily optically thin. Results: Optically thick clumps reduce the effective opacity. This has a pronounced effect on the emergent spectrum. Our modeling for the O-type supergiant zeta Puppis reveals that the optically thin H-alpha line is not affected by wind porosity, but that the PV resonance doublet becomes significantly weaker when macroclumping is taken into account. The reported discrepancies between resonance-line and recombination-line diagnostics can be resolved entirely with the macroclumping modeling without downward revision of the mass-loss rate. Conclusions: Mass-loss rates inferred from optically thin emission, such as the H-alpha line in O stars, are not influenced by macroclumping. The strength of optically thick lines, however, is reduced because of the porosity effects. Therefore, neglecting the porosity in stellar wind modeling can lead to underestimating empirical mass-loss rates. 
0704.02391	Ordinary differential systems in dimension three with affine Weyl group  symmetry of types $D_4^{(1)},B_3^{(1)},G_2^{(1)},D_3^{(2)}$ and $A_2^{(2)}$	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yusuke Sasano	 Abstract: We present a four-parameter family of ordinary differential systems in dimension three with affine Weyl group symmetry of type $D_4^{(1)}$. By obtaining its first integral, we can reduce this system to the second-order non-linear ordinary differential equations of Painlev\'e type. We also study this system restricted its parameters. Each system can be obtained by connecting some invariant divisors in the system of type $D_4^{(1)}$. Each system admits affine Weyl group symmetry of types $B_3^{(1)},G_2^{(1)},D_3^{(2)}$ and $A_2^{(2)}$, respectively. These symmetries, holomorphy conditions and invariant divisors are new. 
0704.02392	Shear zones in granular media: 3D Contact Dynamics simulation	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Alexander Ries, Tamas Unger, Dietrich E. Wolf	 Abstract: Shear zone formation is investigated in slow 3D shear flows. We simulate the linear version of the split-bottom shear cell. It is shown that the same type of wide shear zones is achieved in the presence as well as in the absence of gravity. We investigate the relaxation of the material towards a stationary flow and analyze the stress and the velocity fields. We provide the functional form of the widening of the shear zone inside the bulk. We discuss the growth of the region where the material is in critical state. It is found that the growth of the critical zone is responsible for the initial transient of the shear zone. 
0704.02393	Symmetry in the Painlevé systems and their extensions to  four-dimensional systems	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yusuke Sasano	 Abstract: We give a new approach to the symmetries of the Painlev\'e equations $P_{V},P_{IV},P_{III}$ and $P_{II}$, respectively. Moreover, we make natural extensions to fourth-order analogues for each of the Painlev\'e equations $P_{V}$ and $P_{III}$, respectively, which are natural in the sense that they preserve the symmetries. 
0704.02394	Muon Physics: A Pillar of the Standard Model	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:B. Lee Roberts	 Abstract: Since its discovery in the 1930s, the muon has played an important role in our quest to understand the sub-atomic theory of matter. The muon was the first second-generation standard-model particle to be discovered, and its decay has provided information on the (Vector -Axial Vector) structure of the weak interaction, the strength of the weak interaction, G_F, and the conservation of lepton number (flavor) in muon decay. The muon's anomalous magnetic moment has played an important role in restricting theories of physics beyond the standard standard model, where at present there is a 3.4 standard-deviation difference between the experiment and standard-model theory. Its capture on the atomic nucleus has provided valuable information on the modification of the weak current by the strong interaction which is complementary to that obtained from nuclear beta decay. 
0704.02395	Multivariate Wavelet Frames	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:M. Skopina	 Abstract: We proved that for any matrix dilation and for any positive integer $n$, there exists a compactly supported tight wavelet frame with approximation order $n$. Explicit methods for construction of dual and tight wavelet frames with a given number of vanishing moments are suggested. 
0704.02396	An English translation o Bertrand's theorem	Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)	Authors:F. C. Santos, V. Soares, A. C. Tort	 Abstract: A beautiful theorem due to J. L. F. Bertrand concerning the laws of attraction that admit bounded closed orbits for arbitrarily chosen initial conditions is translated from French into English. 
0704.02397	The Quantum Configuration Space of Loop Quantum Cosmology	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:J. M. Velhinho	 Abstract: The article gives an account of several aspects of the space known as the Bohr compactification of the line, featuring as the quantum configuration space in loop quantum cosmology, as well as of the corresponding configuration space realization of the so-called polymer representation. Analogies with loop quantum gravity are explored, providing an introduction to (part of) the mathematical structure of loop quantum gravity, in a technically simpler context. 
0704.02398	The Search for Primordial Black Holes Using Very Short Gamma Ray Bursts	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D.B. Cline, C. Matthey, S. Otwinowski, B. Czerny, A. Janiuk	 Abstract: We show the locations of the SWIFT short hard bursts (SHB) with afterglows on the galactic map and compare with the VSB BATSE events. As we have pointed out before, there is an excess of events in the galactic map of BATSE VSB events. We not that none of VSB SWIFT era events fall into this cluster. More SWIFT events are needed to check this claim. We also report a new study with KONUS data of the VSB sample with an average energy above 90 keV showing a clear excess of events below 100 ms duration (T90) that have large mean energy protons. We suggest that VSB themselves consist of two subclasses: a fraction of events have peculiar distribution properties and have no detectable counterparts, as might be expected for exotic sources such as primordial black holes. We show how GLAST could add key new information to the study of VSB bursts and could help test the black hole concept. 
0704.02399	Large radius exciton in single-walled carbon nanotubes	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Vadym M. Adamyan, Oleksii A. Smyrnov	 Abstract: The spectrum of large radius exciton in an individual semiconducting single-walled carbon nanotube (SWCNT) is described within the framework of elementary potential model, in which exciton is modeled as bound state of two oppositely charged quasi-particles confined on the tube surface. Due to the parity of the interaction potential the exciton states split into the odd and even series. It is shown that for the bare and screened Coulomb electron-hole (e-h) potentials the binding energy of even excitons in the ground state well exceeds the energy gap. The factors preventing the collapse of single-electron states in isolated semiconducting SWCNTs are discussed. 
0704.02400	Two-Loop Fermionic Corrections to Massive Bhabha Scattering	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:S. Actis (DESY), M. Czakon (U. Wuerzburg), J. Gluza (U. Katowice), T. Riemann (DESY)	 Abstract: We evaluate the two-loop corrections to Bhabha scattering from fermion loops in the context of pure Quantum Electrodynamics. The differential cross section is expressed by a small number of Master Integrals with exact dependence on the fermion masses me, mf and the Mandelstam invariants s,t,u. We determine the limit of fixed scattering angle and high energy, assuming the hierarchy of scales me^2 << mf^2 << s,t,u. The numerical result is combined with the available non-fermionic contributions. As a by-product, we provide an independent check of the known electron-loop contributions. 
0704.02401	Suppressed dependence of polarization on epitaxial strain in highly  polar ferroelectrics	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Ho Nyung Lee, Serge M. Nakhmanson, Matthew F. Chisholm, Hans M. Christen, Karin M. Rabe, David Vanderbilt	 Abstract: A combined experimental and computational investigation of coupling between polarization and epitaxial strain in highly polar ferroelectric PbZr_0.2Ti_0.8O_3 (PZT) thin films is reported. A comparison of the properties of relaxed (tetragonality c/a = 1.05) and highly-strained (c/a = 1.09) epitaxial films shows that polarization, while being amongst the highest reported for PZT or PbTiO_3 in either film or bulk forms (P_r = 82 microC/cm^2), is almost independent of the epitaxial strain. We attribute this behavior to a suppressed sensitivity of the A-site cations to epitaxial strain in these Pb-based perovskites, where the ferroelectric displacements are already large, contrary to the case of less polar perovskites, such as BaTiO_3. In the latter case, the A-site cation (Ba) and equatorial oxygen displacements can lead to substantial polarization increases. 
0704.02402	Indices of the iterates of $R^3$-homeomorphisms at Lyapunov stable fixed  points	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Francisco R. Ruiz del Portal, José Manuel Salazar	 Abstract: Given any positive sequence (\{c_n\}_{n \in {\Bbb N}}), we construct orientation preserving homeomorphisms (f:{\Bbb R}^3 \to {\Bbb R}^3) such that (Fix(f)=Per(f)=\{0\}), (0) is Lyapunov stable and (\limsup \frac{|i(f^m, 0)|}{c_m}= \infty). We will use our results to discuss and to point out some strong differences with respect to the computation and behavior of the sequences of the indices of planar homeomorphisms. 
0704.02403	Existence of outermost apparent horizons with product of spheres  topology	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Fernando Schwartz	 Abstract: In this paper we find new examples of Riemannian manifolds with outermost apparent horizons with nonspherical topology, in dimensions four and above. More precisely, for any $n,m\ge1$, we construct asymptotically flat, scalar flat Riemannian manifolds containing smooth outermost minimal hypersurfaces with topology $S^n\times S^{m+1}$. In the context of general relativity these hypersurfaces correspond to outermost apparent horizons of black holes. 
0704.02404	BFKL at Next-to-Next-to-Leading Order	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Simone Marzani, Richard D.Ball, Pietro Falgari, Stefano Forte	 Abstract: We determine an approximate expression for the O(alpha_s^3) contribution chi_2 to the kernel of the BFKL equation, which includes all collinear and anticollinear singular contributions. This is derived using recent results on the relation between the GLAP and BFKL kernels (including running-coupling effects to all orders) and on small-x factorization schemes. We present the result in various schemes, relevant both for applications to the BFKL equation and to small-x evolution of parton distributions. 
0704.02405	Unimodular Relativity and the Dark Matter Problem	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Robert D. Bock	 Abstract: We introduce a modified divergence law for the energy-momentum tensor in the theory of unimodular relativity. Consequently, an additional equation for the measure field follows from the divergence of the field equations. The equations of motion are derived and the weak-field, low-velocity limit is investigated. It is found that the gravitational acceleration acquires a term that is proportional to the gradient of the mass density. We show that this term can provide the additional acceleration observed on astrophysical scales without the need for dark matter. 
0704.02406	Dynamics of the universe in the modified unimodular theory of gravity	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Robert D. Bock	 Abstract: The equations that govern the dynamics of the universe in the modified unimodular theory of gravity are derived. We find a mechanism for inflation in the early universe without postulating a false vacuum state during the first $10^{-35}$ seconds after the Big Bang. In addition, we find a natural explanation for the acceleration of the universe without resorting to dark energy. 
0704.02407	The Physical Nature of Polar Broad Absorption Line Quasars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Kajal K. Ghosh, Brian Punsly	 Abstract: It has been shown based on radio variability arguments that some BALQSOs (broad absorption line quasars) are viewed along the polar axis (orthogonal to accretion disk) in the recent article of Zhou et al. These arguments are based on the brightness temperature, $T_{b}$ exceeding $10^{12} ^{\circ}$ K which leads to the well-known inverse Compton catastrophe unless the radio jet is relativistic and is viewed along its axis. In this letter, we expand the Zhou et al sample of polar BALQSOs to the entire SDSS DR5. In the process, we clarify a mistake in their calculation of brightness temperature. The expanded sample of high $T_{b}$ BALQSOS, has an inordinately large fraction of LoBALQSOs (low ionization BALQSOs). We consider this an important clue to understanding the nature of the polar BALQSOs. This is expected in the polar BALQSO analytical/numerical models of Punsly in which LoBALQSOs occur when the line of sight is very close to the polar axis, where the outflow density is the highest. 
0704.02408	Resolving the pulsations of subdwarf B stars: HS 0039+4302, HS  0444+0458, and an examination of the group properties of resolved pulsators	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M.D. Reed, D.M. Terndrup, A.-Y. Zhou, C.T. Unterborn, D. An, J.R. Eggen	 Abstract: We continue our program of single-site observations of pulsating subdwarf B (sdB) stars and present the results of extensive time series photometry of HS 0039+4302 and HS 0444+0458. Both were observed at MDM Observatory during the fall of 2005. We extend the number of known frequencies for HS 0039+4302 from 4 to 14 and discover one additional frequency for HS 0444+0458, bringing the total to three. We perform standard tests to search for multiplet structure, measure amplitude variations, and examine the frequency density to constrain the mode degree $\ell$. Including the two stars in this paper, 23 pulsating sdB stars have received follow-up observations designed to decipher their pulsation spectra. It is worth an examination of what has been detected. We compare and contrast the frequency content in terms of richness and range and the amplitudes with regards to variability and diversity. We use this information to examine observational correlations with the proposed $\kappa$ pulsation mechanism as well as alternative theories. 
0704.02409	Multilevel Deconstruction of the In Vivo Behavior of Looped DNA-Protein  Complexes	Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)	Authors:Leonor Saiz, Jose M.G. Vilar	 Abstract: Protein-DNA complexes with loops play a fundamental role in a wide variety of cellular processes, ranging from the regulation of DNA transcription to telomere maintenance. As ubiquitous as they are, their precise in vivo properties and their integration into the cellular function still remain largely unexplored. Here, we present a multilevel approach that efficiently connects in both directions molecular properties with cell physiology and use it to characterize the molecular properties of the looped DNA-lac repressor complex while functioning in vivo. The properties we uncover include the presence of two representative conformations of the complex, the stabilization of one conformation by DNA architectural proteins, and precise values of the underlying twisting elastic constants and bending free energies. Incorporation of all this molecular information into gene-regulation models reveals an unprecedented versatility of looped DNA-protein complexes at shaping the properties of gene expression. 
0704.02410	The Invariant Ring of Triples of 3x3 Matrices over a Field of Arbitrary  Characteristic	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:A.A. Lopatin	 Abstract: Let R_{n,d} be the ring of invariants of d-tuples of n x n matrices under the simultaneous conjugation action of the general linear group. A minimal generating system and a homogeneous system of parameters for R_{3,3} are determined. Homogeneous systems of parameters for R_{3,2}, R_{4,2} are also pointed out. 
0704.02411	Indecomposable invariants of quivers for dimension (2,...,2) and maximal  paths	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:A.A. Lopatin	 Abstract: An upper bound on degrees of elements of a minimal generating system for invariants of quivers of dimension (2,...,2) is established over a field of arbitrary characteristic and its precision is estimated. The proof is based on the reduction to the problem of description of maximal paths satisfying certain condition. 
0704.02412	Giant viscosity enhancement in a spin-polarized Fermi liquid	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:H. Akimoto, J. S. Xia, D. Candela, W. J. Mullin, E. D. Adams, N. S. Sullivan	 Abstract: The viscosity is measured for a Fermi liquid, a dilute $^3$He-$^4$He mixture, under extremely high magnetic field/temperature conditions ($B \leq 14.8$ T, $T \geq 1.5$ mK). The spin splitting energy $\mu B$ is substantially greater than the Fermi energy $k_B T_F$; as a consequence the polarization tends to unity and s-wave quasiparticle scattering is suppressed for $T \ll T_F$. Using a novel composite vibrating-wire viscometer an enhancement of the viscosity is observed by a factor of more than 500 over its low-field value. Good agreement is found between the measured viscosity and theoretical predictions based upon a $t$-matrix formalism. 
0704.02413	Radio Spectral Evolution of an X-ray Poor Impulsive Solar Flare:  Implications for Plasma Heating and Electron Acceleration	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T. S. Bastian, G. D. Fleishman, D. E. Gary	 Abstract: We present radio and X-ray observations of an impulsive solar flare that was moderately intense in microwaves, yet showed very meager EUV and X-ray emission. The flare occurred on 2001 Oct 24 and was well-observed at radio wavelengths by the Nobeyama Radioheliograph (NoRH), the Nobeyama Radio Polarimeters (NoRP), and by the Owens Valley Solar Array (OVSA). It was also observed in EUV and X-ray wavelength bands by the TRACE, GOES, and Yohkoh satellites. We find that the impulsive onset of the radio emission is progressively delayed with increasing frequency relative to the onset of hard X-ray emission. In contrast, the time of flux density maximum is progressively delayed with decreasing frequency. The decay phase is independent of radio frequency. The simple source morphology and the excellent spectral coverage at radio wavelengths allowed us to employ a nonlinear chi-squared minimization scheme to fit the time series of radio spectra to a source model that accounts for the observed radio emission in terms of gyrosynchrotron radiation from MeV-energy electrons in a relatively dense thermal plasma. We discuss plasma heating and electron acceleration in view of the parametric trends implied by the model fitting. We suggest that stochastic acceleration likely plays a role in accelerating the radio-emitting electrons. 
0704.02414	Multi-qubit stabilizer and cluster entanglement witnesses	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:M. A. Jafarizadeh, G. Najarbashi, Y. Akbari, H. Habibian	 Abstract: One of the problems concerning entanglement witnesses (EWs) is the construction of them by a given set of operators. Here several multi-qubit EWs called stabilizer EWs are constructed by using the stabilizer operators of some given multi-qubit states such as GHZ, cluster and exceptional states. The general approach to manipulate the multi-qubit stabilizer EWs by exact(approximate) linear programming (LP) method is described and it is shown that the Clifford group play a crucial role in finding the hyper-planes encircling the feasible region. The optimality, decomposability and non-decomposability of constructed stabilizer EWs are discussed. 
0704.02415	Near-Infrared and X-ray Observations of the Enigmatic G70.7+1.2	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. B. Cameron, S. R. Kulkarni (Caltech)	 Abstract: We present high resolution imaging of the puzzling radio and optical nebula G70.7+1.2 with the Keck Observatory's laser guide star adaptive optics (LGS-AO) system and the Chandra X-ray Observatory. The archival X-ray observations show a hard (Gamma ~ 1.8), low luminosity (L_X ~ 4 x 10^31 ergs/s) point source at the center of the nebula. Follow-up LGS-AO near-infrared imaging of the Chandra error circle reveals a relatively bright (K' ~ 14 magnitude) counterpart. Both its color and brightness are consistent with a heavily obscured B-star or possibly a late-G/early-K giant. The most plausible explanation is that this newly discovered X-ray source is a non-accreting B-star/pulsar binary powering the radio and optical nebula. If so, the luminous Be-star discussed in the literature seemingly embedded in the nebula is not the dominant force responsible for shaping G70.7+1.2. Thus, we suggest that G70.7+1.2 is the result of two unrelated objects (a B-star X-ray binary and a Be star) interacting with a dense molecular cloud. With this explanation we believe we have solved the mystery of the origin of G70.7+1.2. 
0704.02416	Fundamental Plane of Sunyaev-Zeldovich clusters	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Niayesh Afshordi (Perimeter/Harvard)	 Abstract: Sunyaev-Zel'dovich (SZ) cluster surveys are considered among the most promising methods for probing dark energy up to large redshifts. However, their premise is hinged upon an accurate mass-observable relationship, which could be affected by the (rather poorly understood) physics of the intracluster gas. In this letter, using a semi-analytic model of the intracluster gas that accommodates various theoretical uncertainties, I develop a Fundamental Plane relationship between the observed size, thermal energy, and mass of galaxy clusters. In particular, I find that M ~ (Y_{SZ}/R_{SZ,2})^{3/4}, where M is the mass, Y_{SZ} is the total SZ flux or thermal energy, and R_{SZ,2} is the SZ half-light radius of the cluster. I first show that, within this model, using the Fundamental Plane relationship reduces the (systematic+random) errors in mass estimates to 14%, from 22% for a simple mass-flux relationship. Since measurement of the cluster sizes is an inevitable part of observing the SZ clusters, the Fundamental Plane relationship can be used to reduce the error of the cluster mass estimates by ~ 34%, improving the accuracy of the resulting cosmological constraints without any extra cost. I then argue why our Fundamental Plane is distinctly different from the virial relationship that one may naively expect between the cluster parameters. Finally, I argue that while including more details of the observed SZ profile cannot significantly improve the accuracy of mass estimates, a better understanding of the impact of non-gravitational heating/cooling processes on the outskirts of the intracluster medium (apart from external calibrations) might be the best way to reduce these errors. 
0704.02417	The Spectral Index Distribution of EGRET Blazars: Prospects for GLAST	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Tonia M. Venters, Vasiliki Pavlidou (KICP, U. Chicago)	 Abstract: The intrinsic distribution of spectral indices in GeV energies of gamma-ray--loud blazars is a critical input in determining the spectral shape of the unresolved blazar contribution to the diffuse extragalactic gamma-ray background, as well as an important test of blazar emission theories. We present a maximum-likelihood method of determining the intrinsic spectral index distribution (ISID) of a population of gamma-ray emitters which accounts for error in measurement of individual spectral indices, and we apply it to EGRET blazars. We find that the most likely Gaussian ISID for EGRET blazars has a mean of 2.27 and a standard deviation of 0.20. We additionally find some indication that FSRQs and BL Lacs may have different ISIDs (with BL Lacs being harder). We also test for spectral index hardening associated with blazar variability for which we find no evidence. Finally, we produce simulated GLAST spectral index datasets and perform the same analyses. With improved statistics due to the much larger number of resolvable blazars, GLAST data will help us determine the ISIDs with much improved accuracy. Should any difference exist between the ISIDs of BL Lacs and FSRQs or between the ISIDs of blazars in the quiescent and flaring states, GLAST data will be adequate to separate these ISIDs at a significance better than 3 sigma. 
0704.02418	Adding Environmental Gas Physics to the Semi-Analytic Method for Galaxy  Formation: Gravitational Heating	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Khochfar, J. P. Ostriker	 Abstract: We present results of an attempt to include more detailed gas physics motivated from hydrodynamical simulations within semi-analytic models (SAM) of galaxy formation, focusing on the role that environmental effects play. The main difference to previous SAMs is that we include 'gravitational' heating of the intra-cluster medium (ICM) by the net surplus of gravitational potential energy released from gas that has been stripped from infalling satellites. Gravitational heating appears to be an efficient heating source able to prevent cooling in environments corresponding to dark matter halos more massive than $\sim 10^{13} $M$_{\odot}$. The energy release by gravitational heating can match that by AGN-feedback in massive galaxies and can exceed it in the most massive ones. However, there is a fundamental difference in the way the two processes operate. Gravitational heating becomes important at late times, when the peak activity of AGNs is already over, and it is very mass dependent. This mass dependency and time behaviour gives the right trend to recover down-sizing in the star-formation rate of massive galaxies. Abridged... 
0704.02419	Spatial distribution of local currents of massless Dirac fermions in  quantum transport through graphene nanoribbons	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Liviu P. Zarbo, Branislav K. Nikolic	 Abstract: We employ the formalism of bond currents, expressed in terms of the nonequilibrium Green functions, to image the charge flow between two sites of the honeycomb lattice of graphene ribbons of few nanometers width. In sharp contrast to nonrelativistic electrons, current density profiles of quantum transport at energies close to the Dirac point in clean zigzag graphene nanoribbons (ZGNR) differs markedly from the profiles of charge density peaked at the edges due to zero-energy localized edge states. For transport through the lowest propagating mode induced by these edge states, edge vacancies do not affect current density peaked in the center of ZGNR. The long-range potential of a single impurity acts to reduce local current around it while concurrently increasing the current density along the zigzag edge, so that ZGNR conductance remains perfect $G=2e^2/h$. 
0704.02420	Searching for Earth analogues around the nearest stars: the disk  age-metallicity relation and the age distribution in the Solar Neighbourhood	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:I. Neill Reid (STScI), Edwin L. Turner (Princeton University), Margaret C. Turnbull, M. Mountain, Jeff A. Valenti (STScI)	 Abstract: The chemical composition of Earth's atmosphere has undergone substantial evolution over the course of its history. It is possible, even likely, that terrestrial planets in other planetary systems have undergone similar changes; consequently, the age distribution of nearby stars is an important consideration in designing surveys for Earth-analogues. Valenti & Fischer (2005) provide age and metallicity estimates for 1039 FGK dwarfs in the Solar Neighbourhood. Using the Hipparcos catalogue as a reference to calibrate potential biases, we have extracted volume-limited samples of nearby stars from the Valenti-Fischer dataset. Unlike other recent investigations, our analysis shows clear evidence for an age-metallicity relation in the local disk, albeit with substantial dispersion at any epoch. The mean metallicity increases from -0.3 dex at a lookback time of ~10 Gyrs to +0.15 dex at the present day. Supplementing the Valenti-Fischer measurements with literature data to give a complete volume-limited sample, the age distribution of nearby FGK dwarfs is broadly consistent with a uniform star-formation rate over the history of the Galactic disk. In striking contrast, most stars known to have planetary companions are younger than 5 Gyrs; however, stars with planetary companions within 0.4 AU have a significantly flatter age distribution, indicating that those systems are stable on timescales of many Gyrs. Several of the older, lower metallicity host stars have enhanced [alpha/Fe] ratios, implying membership of the thick disk. If the frequency of terrestrial planets is also correlated with stellar metallicity, then the median age of such planetary system is likely to be ~3 Gyrs. We discuss the implications of this hypothesis in designing searches for Earth analogues among the nearby stars. 
0704.02421	Measuring the dark side (with weak lensing)	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Luca Amendola (INAF/OAR Italy), Martin Kunz, Domenico Sapone (U. Geneve, Switzerland)	 Abstract: We introduce a convenient parametrization of dark energy models that is general enough to include several modified gravity models and generalized forms of dark energy. In particular we take into account the linear perturbation growth factor, the anisotropic stress and the modified Poisson equation. We discuss the sensitivity of large scale weak lensing surveys like the proposed DUNE satellite to these parameters. We find that a large-scale weak-lensing tomographic survey is able to easily distinguish the Dvali-Gabadadze-Porrati model from LCDM and to determine the perturbation growth index to an absolute error of 0.02-0.03. 
0704.02422	An Inner Hole in the Disk around TW Hydrae Resolved in 7 Millimeter Dust  Emission	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. M. Hughes, D. J. Wilner, N. Calvet, P. D'Alessio, M. J. Claussen, M. R. Hogerheijde	 Abstract: We present Very Large Array observations at 7 millimeters wavelength that resolve the dust emission structure in the disk around the young star TW Hydrae at the scale of the ~4 AU (~0.16") radius inner hole inferred from spectral energy distribution modeling. These high resolution data confirm directly the presence of an inner hole in the dust disk and reveal a high brightness ring that we associate with the directly illuminated inner edge of the disk. The clearing of the inner disk plausibly results from the dynamical effects of a giant planet in formation. In an appendix, we develop an analytical framework for the interpretation of visibility curves from power-law disk models with inner holes. 
0704.02423	AMBRE - a Mathematica package for the construction of Mellin-Barnes  representations for Feynman integrals	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:J. Gluza (U. Katowice), K. Kajda (U. Katowice), T. Riemann (DESY)	 Abstract: The Mathematica toolkit AMBRE derives Mellin-Barnes (MB) representations for Feynman integrals in d=4-2eps dimensions. It may be applied for tadpoles as well as for multi-leg multi-loop scalar and tensor integrals. AMBRE uses a loop-by-loop approach and aims at lowest dimensions of the final MB representations. The present version of AMBRE works fine for planar Feynman diagrams. The output may be further processed by the package MB for the determination of its singularity structure in eps. The AMBRE package contains various sample applications for Feynman integrals with up to six external particles and up to four loops. 
0704.02424	Orbit-based deformation procedure for two-field models	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:V.I. Afonso, D. Bazeia, M.A. Gonzalez Leon, L. Losano, J. Mateos Guilarte	 Abstract: We present a method for generating new deformed solutions starting from systems of two real scalar fields for which defect solutions and orbits are known. The procedure generalizes the approach introduced in a previous work [Phys. Rev. D 66, 101701(R) (2002)], in which it is shown how to construct new models altogether with its defect solutions, in terms of the original model and solutions. As an illustration, we work out an explicit example in detail. 
0704.02425	Trapping and Cooling a mirror to its quantum mechanical ground state	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:M. Bhattacharya, P. Meystre	 Abstract: We propose a technique aimed at cooling a harmonically oscillating mirror to its quantum mechanical ground state starting from room temperature. Our method, which involves the two-sided irradiation of the vibrating mirror inside an optical cavity, combines several advantages over the two-mirror arrangements being used currently. For comparable parameters the three-mirror configuration provides a stiffer trap for the oscillating mirror. Furthermore it prevents bistability from limiting the use of higher laser powers for mirror trapping, and also partially does so for mirror cooling. Lastly, it improves the isolation of the mirror from classical noise so that its dynamics are perturbed mostly by the vacuum fluctuations of the optical fields. These improvements are expected to bring the task of achieving ground state occupation for the mirror closer to completion. 
0704.02426	Testing General Metric Theories of Gravity with Bursting Neutron Stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Dimitrios Psaltis (Arizona)	 Abstract: I show that several observable properties of bursting neutron stars in metric theories of gravity can be calculated using only conservation laws, Killing symmetries, and the Einstein equivalence principle, without requiring the validity of the general relativistic field equations. I calculate, in particular, the gravitational redshift of a surface atomic line, the touchdown luminosity of a radius-expansion burst, which is believed to be equal to the Eddington critical luminosity, and the apparent surface area of a neutron star as measured during the cooling tails of bursts. I show that, for a general metric theory of gravity, the apparent surface area of a neutron star depends on the coordinate radius of the stellar surface and on its gravitational redshift in the exact same way as in general relativity. On the other hand, the Eddington critical luminosity depends also on an additional parameter that measures the degree to which the general relativistic field equations are satisfied. These results can be used in conjunction with current and future high-energy observations of bursting neutron stars to test general relativity in the strong-field regime. 
0704.02427	Stationary and non-stationary fluid flow of a Bose-Einstein condensate  through a penetrable barrier	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:P. Engels, C. Atherton	 Abstract: We experimentally study the fluid flow induced by a broad, penetrable barrier moving through an elongated dilute gaseous Bose-Einstein condensate. The barrier is created by a laser beam swept through the condensate, and the resulting dipole potential can be either attractive or repulsive. We examine both cases and find regimes of stable and unstable fluid flow: At slow speeds of the barrier, the fluid flow is stationary due to the superfluidity of the condensate. At intermediate speeds, we observe a non-stationary regime in which the condensate gets filled with dark solitons. At faster speeds, soliton formation completely ceases and a remarkable absence of excitation in the condensate is seen again. 
0704.02428	Hopf algebras of dimension pq, II	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Siu-Hung Ng	 Abstract: Let H be a Hopf algebra of dimension pq over an algebraically closed field of characteristic zero, where p, q are odd primes with p < q < 4p+12. We prove that H is semisimple and thus isomorphic to a group algebra, or the dual of a group algebra. 
0704.02429	The Topological Theory of the Milnor Invariant $\barμ(1,2,3)$	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Lorenzo Leal, Jesus Pineda	 Abstract: We study a topological Abelian gauge theory that generalizes the Abelian Chern-Simons one, and that leads in a natural way to the Milnor's link invariant $\bar{\mu}(1,2,3)$ when the classical action on-shell is calculated. 
0704.02430	The First Release COSMOS Optical and Near-IR Data and Catalog	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. Capak, H. Aussel, M. Ajiki, H. J. McCracken, B. Mobasher, N. Scoville, P. Shopbell, Y. Taniguchi, D. Thompson, S. Tribiano, S. Sasaki, A. W. Blain, M. Brusa, C. Carilli, A. Comastri, C. M. Carollo, P. Cassata, J. Colbert, R. S. Ellis, M. Elvis, M. Giavalisco, W. Green, L. Guzzo, G. Hasinger, O. Ilbert, C. Impey, K. Jahnke, J. Kartaltepe, J-P. Kneib, J. Koda, A. Koekemoer, Y. Komiyama, A. Leauthaud, O. Lefevre, S. Lilly, R. Massey, S. Miyazaki, T. Murayama, T. Nagao, J. A. Peacock, A. Pickles, C. Porciani, A. Renzini, J. Rhodes, M. Rich, M. Salvato, D. B. Sanders, C. Scarlata, D. Schiminovich, E. Schinnerer, M. Scodeggio, K. Sheth, Y. Shioya, L. A. M. Tasca, J. E. Taylor, L. Yan, G. Zamorani	 Abstract: We present imaging data and photometry for the COSMOS survey in 15 photometric bands between 0.3um and 2.4um. These include data taken on the Subaru 8.3m telescope, the KPNO and CTIO 4m telescopes, and the CFHT 3.6m telescope. Special techniques are used to ensure that the relative photometric calibration is better than 1% across the field of view. The absolute photometric accuracy from standard star measurements is found to be 6%. The absolute calibration is corrected using galaxy spectra, providing colors accurate to 2% or better. Stellar and galaxy colors and counts agree well with the expected values. Finally, as the first step in the scientific analysis of these data we construct panchromatic number counts which confirm that both the geometry of the universe and the galaxy population are evolving. 
0704.02431	Vortex trapping in suddenly connected Bose-Josephson junctions	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Parag Ghosh, Fernando Sols	 Abstract: We investigate the problem of vortex trapping in cyclically coupled Bose-Josephson junctions. Starting with $N$ independent BECs we couple the condensates through Josephson links and allow the system to reach a stable circulation by adding a dissipative term in our semiclassical equations of motion. The central question we address is what is the probability to trap a vortex with winding number $m$. Our numerical simulations reveal that the final distribution of winding numbers is narrower than the initial distribution of total phases, indicating an increased probability for no-vortex configurations. Further, the nonlinearity of the problem manifests itself in the somewhat counter-intuitive result that it is possible to obtain a non-zero circulation starting with zero total phase around the loop. The final width of the distribution of winding numbers for $N$ sites scales as $\lambda N^{\alpha}$, where $\alpha=0.47\pm 0.01$ and $\lambda <0.67$ (value predicted for the initial distribution) indicating a shrinking of the final distribution. The actual value of $\lambda$ is found to depend on the strength of dissipation. 
0704.02432	Thermodynamic properties of Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8 calculated from the electronic  dispersion	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:J. G. Storey, J. L. Tallon, G. V. M. Williams	 Abstract: The electronic dispersion for Bi2Sr2CaCu2O(8+d) has been determined from angle-resolved photoelectron spectroscopy (ARPES). From this dispersion we calculate the entropy and superfluid density. Even with no adjustable parameters we obtain an exceptional match with experimental data across the entire phase diagram, thus indirectly confirming both the ARPES and thermodynamic data. The van Hove singularity is crossed in the overdoped region giving a distinctive linear-in-T temperature dependence in the superfluid density there. 
0704.02433	A simple derivation of the Overlap Dirac Operator	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:C. D. Fosco, G. Torroba, H. Neuberger	 Abstract: We derive the vector-like four dimensional overlap Dirac operator starting from a five dimensional Dirac action in the presence of a delta-function space-time defect. The effective operator is obtained by first integrating out all the fermionic modes in the fixed gauge background, and then identifying the contribution from the localized modes as the determinant of an operator in one dimension less. We define physically relevant degrees of freedom on the defect by introducing an auxiliary defect-bound fermion field and integrating out the original five dimensional bulk field. 
0704.02434	Induced inflation from a 5D purely kinetic scalar field formalism on  warped product spaces	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Jose Edgar Madriz Aguilar	 Abstract: Considering a separable and purely kinetic 5D scalar field on a warped product metric background we propose a new and more general approach for inducing 4D scalar potentials on a 4D constant foliation of the 5D space-time. We obtain an induced potential for a true 4D scalar field instead of a potential for an effective 4D scalar field. In this formalism we can recover the usual 4D inflationary formalism with a geometrically induced inflationary potential. In addition the quantum confinement of the inflaton modes is obtained naturally from the model for at least a class of warping factors. Besides the 4D inflationary physics that results of this formalism is independent of the 4D-hypersurface chosen. 
0704.02435	Integrable Nonautonomous Nonlinear Schrodinger Equations	Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)	Authors:Metin Gurses	 Abstract: We show that a recently given nonautonomous nonlinear Schrodinger equation (NLSE) can be transformed into the autonomous NLSE. 
0704.02436	Observations and Modeling of Line Asymmetries in Chromospheric Flares	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Berlicki	 Abstract: For many years various asymmetrical profiles of different spectral lines emitted from solar flares have been frequently observed. These asymmetries or line shifts are caused predominantly by vertical mass motions in flaring layers and they provide a good diagnostics for plasma flows during solar flares. There are many controversial results of observations and theoretical analysis of plasma flows in solar chromospheric flares. The main difficulty is the interpretation of line shifts or asymmetries. For many years, methods based on bisector techniques were used but they give a reliable results only for some specific conditions and in most cases cannot be applied. The most promising approach is to use the non-LTE techniques applied for flaring atmosphere. The calculation of synthetic line profiles is performed with the radiative transfer techniques and the assumed physical conditions correspond to flaring atmosphere. I will present an overview of different observations and interpretations of line asymmetries in chromospheric flares. I will explain what we have learnt about the chromospheric evaporation in the frame of hydrodynamical models as well as reconnection models. A critical review will be done on the classical methods used to derive Doppler-shifts for optically thick chomospheric lines. In particular, details on the new approach for interpreting chromospheric line asymmetries based on the non-LTE techniques will be presented. 
0704.02437	Multiple quantum wells for passive ultra short laser pulse generation	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:R. Quintero-Torres, E. Vazquez-Ceron, E. Rodriguez-Rodriguez, Andreas Stintz, Jean-Claude Diels	 Abstract: Solid state lasers are demanding independent control in the gain media and cavity loss to achieve ultra short laser pulses using passive mode-locking. Recently, laser mode-locking is achieved with a MBE structure with multiple quantum wells, designed to achieve two functions; Bragg mirror and changes in absorption to control the cavity dynamics. The use of an AlGaAs/AlAs Bragg mirror with a 15 nm GaAs saturable absorber used in a Cr:LiSAF tuneable laser proved to be effective to produce femtosecond pulses. The use of saturable absorbers thus far is a trial and error procedure that is changing due to the correlation with more predictive procedures. 
0704.02438	New $_5F_4$ hypergeometric transformations, three-variable Mahler  measures, and formulas for $1/π$	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Mathew D. Rogers	 Abstract: New relations are established between families of three-variable Mahler measures. Those identities are then expressed as transformations for the $_5F_4$ hypergeometric function. We use these results to obtain two explicit $_5F_4$ evaluations, and several new formulas for $1/\pi$. 
0704.02439	Quantum phase transitions beyond the dilute Bose gas limit	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Valeri N. Kotov, D. X. Yao, A. H. Castro Neto, D. K. Campbell	 Abstract: We study a Heisenberg S=1/2 ring-exchange antiferromagnet which exhibits a quantum phase transition from a spontaneously dimerized (valence bond solid) phase to a magnetically ordered (Neel) phase. We argue that the quantum transition is of unconventional nature; both singlet and triplet modes of high density condense as the transition is approached from the dimer side, signaling restoration of lattice symmetry. These features are consistent with "deconfined quantum criticality", of which the present model is believed to be the only example so far. 
0704.02440	Black Holes and Large Order Quantum Geometry	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Min-xin Huang, Albrecht Klemm, Marcos Marino, Alireza Tavanfar	 Abstract: We study five-dimensional black holes obtained by compactifying M theory on Calabi-Yau threefolds. Recent progress in solving topological string theory on compact, one-parameter models allows us to test numerically various conjectures about these black holes. We give convincing evidence that a microscopic description based on Gopakumar-Vafa invariants accounts correctly for their macroscopic entropy, and we check that highly nontrivial cancellations -which seem necessary to resolve the so-called entropy enigma in the OSV conjecture- do in fact occur. We also study analytically small 5d black holes obtained by wrapping M2 branes in the fiber of K3 fibrations. By using heterotic/type II duality we obtain exact formulae for the microscopic degeneracies in various geometries, and we compute their asymptotic expansion for large charges. 
0704.02441	Direct Observation of Polarization vs. Thickness Relation in Ultra-Thin  Ferroelectric Films	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Rene Meyer, Arturas Vailionis, Paul. C. McIntyre	 Abstract: A reduction of polarization in ultra-thin ferroelectric films appears to be fundamental to ferroelectricity at the nanoscale. For the model system PbTiO3 on SrTiO3, we report observation of the polarization vs. thickness relation. Distinct periodicity changes of ferroelectric domains obtained from x-ray diffraction and total energy calculations reveal a linear lowering of the polarization below a critical thickness of ~12 nm. Independent polarization and tetragonality measurements provide insight into the fundamental relation between polarization and tetragonality in nanoscale ferroelectrics. 
0704.02442	Ferromagnetic resonance force microscopy on a thin permalloy film	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:E. Nazaretski, D. V. Pelekhov, I. Martin, M. Zalalutdinov, J. W. Baldwin, T. Mewes, B. Houston, P. C. Hammel, R. Movshovich	 Abstract: Ferromagnetic Resonance Force Microscopy (FMRFM) offers a means of performing local ferromagnetic resonance. We have studied the evolution of the FMRFM force spectra in a continuous 50 nm thick permalloy film as a function of probe-film distance and performed numerical simulations of the intensity of the FMRFM probe-film interaction force, accounting for the presence of the localized strongly nonuniform magnetic field of the FMRFM probe magnet. Excellent agreement between the experimental data and the simulation results provides insight into the mechanism of FMR mode excitation in an FMRFM experiment. 
0704.02443	Molecular dynamics studies on spatial scale of low energy excitation in  a simple polymer system	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Akira Koyama, Takashi Odagaki, Koji Fukao	 Abstract: A molecular dynamics simulation is performed to investigate spatial scale of low energy excitation (LEE) in a single linear chain of united atoms. The self part of the dynamic structure function, $S_\mathrm{S}(q,\omega)$, is obtained in a wide range in frequency space ($\omega$) and reciprocal space ($q$). A broad peak corresponding to the LEE is detected at $\omega/2\pi=2.5 \times 10^{11} \mathrm{s^{-1}}$ ($\equiv \omega_{\mathrm{LEE}}/2\pi$) on the contour maps of $S_\mathrm{S}(q,\omega)$, near and below the glass transition temperature ($T_{\mathrm{g}}$=230 K). The $S_\mathrm{S}(q,\omega_{\mathrm{LEE}})$ is symmetric around a maximum along the logarithm of $q$. The inverse of $q_{\mathrm{max}}$, giving the maximum position of $S_\mathrm{S}(q,\omega_{\mathrm{LEE}})$, depends on temperature as $2\pi/q_{\mathrm{max}}\sim T^{0.52}$ for $60 \mathrm{K}<T<T_{\mathrm{g}}$ and $2\pi/q_{\mathrm{max}}\sim T^{0.97}$ for $T_{\mathrm{g}}<T<600 \mathrm{K}$, which is the spatial scale of the motion corresponding to the LEE at low temperatures. Based on a Gaussian approximation for the displacements of monomer groups which give rise to the motion relevant to the LEE, it is found that the number of monomers contained in a group is about 6. 
0704.02444	Contraints on radiative dark-matter decay from the cosmic microwave  background	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Le Zhang, Xuelei Chen, Marc Kamionkowski, Zongguo Si, Zheng Zheng	 Abstract: If dark matter decays to electromagnetically-interacting particles, it can inject energy into the baryonic gas and thus affect the processes of recombination and reionization. This leaves an imprint on the cosmic microwave background (CMB): the large-scale polarization is enhanced, and the small-scale temperature fluctuation is damped. We use the WMAP three-year data combined with galaxy surveys to constrain radiatively decaying dark matter. Our new limits to the dark-matter decay width are about ten times stronger than previous limits. For dark-matter lifetimes that exceed the age of the Universe, a limit of $\zeta \Gamma_{\chi} < 1.7 \times 10^{-25} s^{-1}$ (95% CL) is derived, where $\zeta$ is the efficiency of converting decay energy into ionization energy. Limits for lifetimes short compared with the age of the Universe are also derived. We forecast improvements expected from the Planck satellite. 
0704.02445	Multi-Color Photometry of the Galactic Globular Cluster M75 = NGC 6864.  A New Sensitive Metallicity Indicator and the Position of the Horizontal  Branch in UV	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:V. Kravtsov (1,2), G. Alcaino (3), G. Marconi (4), F. Alvarado (3) ((1) Instituto de Astronomia, UCN, Antofagasta; (2) Sternberg Astronomical Institute, MSU, Moscow; (3) Isaac Newton Institute, Santiago; (4) European Southern Observatory, Santiago)	 Abstract: We carry out and analyze new multi-color photometry of the Galactic globular cluster (GC) M75 in UBVI and focus on the brighter sequences of the color- magnitude diagram (CMD), with particular emphasis on their location in U-based CMD. Specifically, we study the level both of the horizontal (HB) and red giant branches (RGB) relative to the main-sequence turnoff (TO) in the U magnitude. Along with the presented photometry of M75, we use our collection of photometric data on GCs belonging to the metal-poor range, [Fe/H]zw<-1.1 dex, obtained from observations with different equipment, but calibrated by standard stars situated in the observed cluster fields. We confirm our earlier finding, and extend it to a larger magnitude range.We demonstrate that DeltaU_{TO}^{BHB} expressing the difference in U magnitude between the TO point and the level of the blue HB, near its red boundary, of the metal-poor GCs observed with the EMMI camera of the NTT/ESO telescope is about 0.4-0.5 mag smaller as compared to GCs observed with the 100" telescope and 1.3 m Warsaw telescope of the Las Campanas Observatory. At the same time, Delta U_{TO}^{RGB}, the difference in U magnitude between the TO and RGB inflection (brightest) points, does not show such an apparent dependence on the characteristics of U filters used, but it depends on cluster metallicity. We have shown, for the first time, the dependence of the parameter DeltaU_{TO}^{RGB} on [Fe/H] and have estimated its analytical expression, by assuming a linear relation between the parameter and metallicity. Its slope, Delta U_{TO}^{RGB}/Delta [Fe/H]~1.2 mag/dex, is approx. a factor of two steeper than that of the dependence of the RGB bump position in the V magnitude on metallicity. The asymptotic giant branch (AGB) clump and features of the RGB luminosity function (LF) of M75 are also discussed. 
0704.02446	Visible Points on Curves over Finite Fields	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:I. E. Shparlinski, J. F. Voloch	 Abstract: For a prime $p$ and an absolutely irreducible modulo $p$ polynomial $f(U,V) \in \Z[U,V]$ we obtain an asymptotic formulas for the number of solutions to the congruence $f(x,y) \equiv a \pmod p$ in positive integers $x \le X$, $y \le Y$, with the additional condition $\gcd(x,y)=1$. Such solutions have a natural interpretation as solutions which are visible from the origin. These formulas are derived on average over $a$ for a fixed prime $p$, and also on average over $p$ for a fixed integer $a$. 
0704.02447	A Three-Stage Search for Supermassive Black Hole Binaries in LISA Data	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Duncan A. Brown, Jeff Crowder, Curt Cutler, Ilya Mandel, Michele Vallisneri	 Abstract: Gravitational waves from the inspiral and coalescence of supermassive black-hole (SMBH) binaries with masses ~10^6 Msun are likely to be among the strongest sources for the Laser Interferometer Space Antenna (LISA). We describe a three-stage data-analysis pipeline designed to search for and measure the parameters of SMBH binaries in LISA data. The first stage uses a time-frequency track-search method to search for inspiral signals and provide a coarse estimate of the black-hole masses m_1, m_2 and of the coalescence time of the binary t_c. The second stage uses a sequence of matched-filter template banks, seeded by the first stage, to improve the measurement accuracy of the masses and coalescence time. Finally, a Markov Chain Monte Carlo search is used to estimate all nine physical parameters of the binary. Using results from the second stage substantially shortens the Markov Chain burn-in time and allows us to determine the number of SMBH-binary signals in the data before starting parameter estimation. We demonstrate our analysis pipeline using simulated data from the first LISA Mock Data Challenge. We discuss our plan for improving this pipeline and the challenges that will be faced in real LISA data analysis. 
0704.02448	Light Logics and Optimal Reduction: Completeness and Complexity	Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)	Authors:Patrick Baillot, Paolo Coppola, Ugo Dal Lago	 Abstract: Typing of lambda-terms in Elementary and Light Affine Logic (EAL, LAL, resp.) has been studied for two different reasons: on the one hand the evaluation of typed terms using LAL (EAL, resp.) proof-nets admits a guaranteed polynomial (elementary, resp.) bound; on the other hand these terms can also be evaluated by optimal reduction using the abstract version of Lamping's algorithm. The first reduction is global while the second one is local and asynchronous. We prove that for LAL (EAL, resp.) typed terms, Lamping's abstract algorithm also admits a polynomial (elementary, resp.) bound. We also show its soundness and completeness (for EAL and LAL with type fixpoints), by using a simple geometry of interaction model (context semantics). 
0704.02449	Superfield formulation of 4D, N=1 massless higher spin gauge field  theory and supermatrix model	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Takashi Saitou	 Abstract: We study the relation between a supermatrix model and the free 4D, N=1 supersymmetric field theory of a massless supermultiplet with spins (3, 5/2). In order to do this, we construct a superfield formulation of the theory. We show that solutions of the equations of motion for the supermultiplet (3, 5/2) satisfy the equations of motion of a supermatrix model. 
0704.02450	An Abstract Regularity Lemma	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Bela Bollobas, Vladimir Nikiforov	 Abstract: We extend Szemeredi's Regularity Lemma (SRL) to abstract measure spaces. Our main aim is to find general conditions under which the original proof of Szemeredi still works. To illustrate that our approach has some merit, we outline several applications. Some of these applications seem to be tailored to our approach: in particular, we are not aware of any alternative proofs. 
0704.02451	Tilting instability in negative-γrotating nuclei	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Masayuki Matsuzaki (Fukuoka University of Education)	 Abstract: Based on the cranking model and the random phase approximation, we point out that the wobbling excitation on top of the s band in ^{182}Os is stable against angular momentum tilting. This is consistent with the general trend that the wobbling excitations in \gamma<0 rotating nuclei are more stable than those in \gamma>0 ones found in our previous studies. In higher N isotopes known to be \gamma soft, however, a different type of tilting instability is expected. Its possible correspondence to the experimental data is also discussed. 
0704.02452	Optimum Linear LLR Calculation for Iterative Decoding on Fading Channels	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Raman Yazdani, Masoud Ardakani	 Abstract: On a fading channel with no channel state information at the receiver, calculating true log-likelihood ratios (LLR) is complicated. Existing work assume that the power of the additive noise is known and use the expected value of the fading gain in a linear function of the channel output to find approximate LLRs. In this work, we first assume that the power of the additive noise is known and we find the optimum linear approximation of LLRs in the sense of maximum achievable transmission rate on the channel. The maximum achievable rate under this linear LLR calculation is almost equal to the maximum achievable rate under true LLR calculation. We also observe that this method appears to be the optimum in the sense of bit error rate performance too. These results are then extended to the case that the noise power is unknown at the receiver and a performance almost identical to the case that the noise power is perfectly known is obtained. 
0704.02453	On Carmichael's Conjecture	General Mathematics (math.GM)	Authors:Florentin Smarandache	 Abstract: In this article we prove that equation $\phi(x)=n$, for a fixed $n$, admits a finite number of solutions, we find the general form of these solutions, and we show that: if $x_0$ is a unique solution of this equation then $x_0$ is a product of a very large number of primes (we conjecture that the number of such primes is infinite). 
0704.02454	Modeling transcription factor binding events to DNA using a random  walker/jumper representation on a 1D/2D lattice with different affinity sites	Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)	Authors:Vahid Rezania, Jack Tuszynski, Michael Hendzel	 Abstract: Surviving in a diverse environment requires corresponding organism responses. At the cellular level, such adjustment relies on the transcription factors (TFs) which must rapidly find their target sequences amidst a vast amount of non-relevant sequences on DNA molecules. Whether these transcription factors locate their target sites through a 1D or 3D pathway is still a matter of speculation. It has been suggested that the optimum search time is when the protein equally shares its search time between 1D and 3D diffusions. In this paper, we study the above problem using a Monte Carlo simulation by considering a very simple physical model. A 1D strip, representing a DNA, with a number of low affinity sites, corresponding to non-target sites, and high affinity sites, corresponding to target sites, is considered and later extended to a 2D strip. We study the 1D and 3D exploration pathways, and combinations of the two modes by considering three different types of molecules: a walker that randomly walks along the strip with no dissociation; a jumper that represents dissociation and then re-association of a TF with the strip at later time at a distant site; and a hopper that is similar to the jumper but it dissociates and then re-associates at a faster rate than the jumper. We analyze the final probability distribution of molecules for each case and find that TFs can locate their targets fast enough even if they spend 15% of their search time diffusing freely in the solution. This indeed agrees with recent experimental results obtained by Elf et al. 2007 and is in contrast with theoretical expectation. 
0704.02455	Retired A Stars and Their Companions: Exoplanets Orbiting Three  Intermediate-Mass Subgiants	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:John A. Johnson, Debra A. Fischer, Geoffrey W. Marcy, Jason T. Wright, Peter Driscoll, R. P. Butler, Saskia Hekker, Sabine Reffert, Steven S. Vogt	 Abstract: We report precision Doppler measurements of three intermediate-mass subgiants from Lick and Keck Observatories. All three stars show variability in their radial velocities consistent with planet-mass companions in Keplerian orbits. We find a planet with a minimum mass of 2.5 Mjup in a 351.5 day orbit around HD 192699, a planet with a minimum mass of 2.0 Mjup in a 341.1 day orbit around HD 210702, and a planet with a minimum mass of 0.61 Mjup in a 297.3 day orbit around HD 175541. Stellar mass estimates from evolutionary models indicate that all of these stars were formerly A-type dwarfs with masses ranging from 1.65 to 1.85 Msun. These three long-period planets would not have been detectable during their stars' main-sequence phases due to the large rotational velocities and stellar jitter exhibited by early-type dwarfs. There are now 9 "retired" (evolved) A-type stars (Mstar > 1.6 Msun) with known planets. All 9 planets orbit at distances a \geq 0.78 AU, which is significantly different than the semimajor axis distribution of planets around lower-mass stars. We examine the possibility that the observed lack of close-in planets is due to engulfment by their expanding host stars, but we find that this explanation is inadequate given the relatively small stellar radii of K giants (Rstar < 32 Rsun = 0.15 AU) and subgiants (Rstar < 7 Rsun = 0.03 AU). Instead, we conclude that planets around intermediate-mass stars reside preferentially beyond ~0.8 AU, which may be a reflection of different formation and migration histories of planets around A-type stars. 
0704.02456	Classical Heisenberg Hamiltonian Solution of Oriented Spinel  Ferrimagnetic Thin Films	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:P. Samarasekara	 Abstract: The classical Heisenberg Hamiltonian was solved for oriented spinel thin and thick cubic ferrites. The dipole matrix of complicated cubic cell could be simplified into the form of dipole Matrix of simple cubic cells. This study was confined only to the highly oriented thin films of ferrite. The variation of total energy of Nickel ferrite thin films with angle and number of layers was investigated. Also the change of energy with stress induced anisotropy for Nickel ferrite films with N=5 and 1000 has been studied. Films with the magnetic moments ratio 1.86 can be easily oriented in 90 direction when N is greater than 400. 
0704.02457	Another Odd Thing About Unparticle Physics	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Howard Georgi (Harvard Univ)	 Abstract: The peculiar propagator of scale invariant unparticles has phases that produce unusual patterns of interference with standard model processes. We illustrate some of these effects in $e^+e^-\to\mu^+\mu^-$. 
0704.02458	Existence and Stability for Fokker-Planck equations with log-concave  reference measure	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Luigi Ambrosio, Giuseppe Savare, Lorenzo Zambotti	 Abstract: We study Markov processes associated with stochastic differential equations, whose non-linearities are gradients of convex functionals. We prove a general result of existence of such Markov processes and a priori estimates on the transition probabilities. The main result is the following stability property: if the associated invariant measures converge weakly, then the Markov processes converge in law. The proofs are based on the interpretation of a Fokker-Planck equation as the steepest descent flow of the relative Entropy functional in the space of probability measures, endowed with the Wasserstein distance. Applications include stochastic partial differential equations and convergence of equilibrium fluctuations for a class of random interfaces. 
0704.02459	Witnessing the formation of a galaxy cluster at z=0.485: optical and  X-ray properties of RX J1117.4+0743 ([VMF 98] 097)	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:E.R.Carrasco (Gemini Observatory, Southern Operations Center, Chile), E.S.Cypriano (Univesity College London, UK), G.B.Lima Neto (IAG/USP, Brazil), H. Cuevas (Facultad de Ciencias, ULS, Chile), L. Sodre Jr. (IAG/USP, Brazil), C. Mendes de Oliveira (IAG/USP, Brazil), A. Ramirez (Facultad de Ciencias, ULS, Chile)	 Abstract: We present a multiwavelength study of the poor cluster RX J1117.4+0743 ([VMF 98] 097) at z=0.485, based on GMOS/Gemini South g', r' photometry and spectroscopy, and XMM-Newton observations. We examine its nature and surroundings by analyzing the projected galaxy distribution, the galaxy velocity distribution, the weak-lensing mass reconstruction, and the X-ray spectroscopy and imaging. The cluster shows a complex morphology. It is composed by at least two structures along the line-of-sight, with velocity dispersions of 592+-82 km s^-1 and 391+-85 km s^-1 respectively. Other structures are also detected in X-ray, in the galaxy projected number density map, and by weak-lensing. One of these clumps, could be gravitationally bound and associated to the main cluster. The derived temperature and bolometric X-ray luminosity reveal that [VMF 98] 097 behave like a normal cluster, in agreement with Lx-Tx correlation found for both local (z=0) and moderate redshift (z~0.4) clusters. We find that the mass determination inferred from weak-lensing is in average 3 to 4.8 times higher (depending on the model assumed) than the X-ray mass. We have two possible explanations for this discrepancy: i) the cluster is in non-equilibrium, then the deviation of the X-ray estimated mass from the true value can be as high as a factor of two; ii) the intervening mass along the line-of-sight of the cluster is producing an over-estimation of the weak-lensing mass. Based on the analysis presented, we conclude that [VMF 98] 097 is a perturbed cluster with at least two substructures in velocity space and with other nearby structures at projected distances of about 1 h^-1 Mpc. This cluster is an example of a poor cluster caught in the process of accreting sub-structures to become a rich cluster. 
0704.02460	Iron Line Profiles from Relativistic Thick Accretion Disk	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Sheng-Miao Wu, Ting-Gui Wang	 Abstract: We present a new code for calculating the Fe Kalpha line profiles from relativistic accretion disks with finite thickness around a rotating black hole. The thin Keplerian accretion disk must become thicker and sub-Keplerian with increasing accretion rates. We here embark on, for the first time, a fully relativistic computation which is aimed at gaining an insight into the effects of geometrical thickness and the sub-Keplerian orbital velocity on the line profiles. This code is also well-suited to produce accretion disk images. 
0704.02461	GRB blastwaves through wind-shaped circumburst media	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Z. Meliani, R. Keppens	 Abstract: Context:A significant fraction of progenitors for long gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) are believed to be massive stars. The investigation of long GRBs therefore requires modeling the propagation of ultra-relativistic blastwaves through the circumburst medium surrounding massive stars. We simulate the expansion of an isotropic, adiabatic relativistic fireball into the wind-shaped medium around a massive GRB progenitor. The circumburst medium is composed of a realistically stratified stellar wind zone up to its termination shock, followed by a region of shocked wind characterized by a constant density. Aims: We followed the evolution of the blastwave through all its stages, including the extremely rapid acceleration up to a Lorentz factor 75 flow, its deceleration by interaction with stellar wind, its passage of the wind termination shock, until its propagation through shocked wind. Methods: We used the adaptive mesh refinement versatile advection code to follow the evolution of the fireball. Results: We show that the acceleration from purely thermal to ultra-relativistic kinetic regimes is abrupt and produces an internally structured blastwave. We resolved the structure of this ultra-relativistic shell in all stages, thanks to the adaptive mesh. We comment on the dynamical roles played by forward and reverse shock pairs in the phase of interaction with the free stellar wind and clearly identify the complex shock-dominated structure created when the shell crosses the terminal shock. Conclusion: We show that in our model where the terminal shock is taken relatively close to the massive star, the phase of self-similar deceleration of Blandford-McKee type can only be produced in the constant density, shocked wind zone. 
0704.02462	Cooling of a Micro-mechanical Resonator by the Back-action of Lorentz  Force	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Y. D. Wang, K. Semba, H. Yamaguchi	 Abstract: Using a semi-classical approach, we describe an on-chip cooling protocol for a micro-mechanical resonator by employing a superconducting flux qubit. A Lorentz force, generated by the passive back-action of the resonator's displacement, can cool down the thermal motion of the mechanical resonator by applying an appropriate microwave drive to the qubit. We show that this onchip cooling protocol, with well-controlled cooling power and a tunable response time of passive back-action, can be highly efficient. With feasible experimental parameters, the effective mode temperature of a resonator could be cooled down by several orders of magnitude. 
0704.02463	Ultra-High Energy Cosmic Rays and the GeV-TeV Diffuse Gamma-Ray Flux	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Oleg E. Kalashev (INR Moscow), Dmitry V. Semikoz, Guenter Sigl (APC, Paris)	 Abstract: Ultra-high energy cosmic ray protons accelerated in astrophysical objects produce secondary electromagnetic cascades during propagation in the cosmic microwave and infrared backgrounds. We show that such cascades can contribute between ~1% and ~50% of the GeV-TeV diffuse photon flux measured by the EGRET experiment. The GLAST satellite should have a good chance to discover this flux. 
0704.02464	Fermionic formulas for (1,p) logarithmic model characters in Φ_{2,1}  quasiparticle realisation	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:B.Feigin, E.Feigin, I.Tipunin	 Abstract: We give expressions for the characters of $(1,p)$ logarithmic conformal field models in the Gordon-type form. The formulas are obtained in terms of ``quasiparticles'' that are Virasoro $\Phi_{2,1}$ primary fields and generalize the symplectic fermions. 
0704.02465	N=2 supergravity in three dimensions and its Godel supersymmetric  background	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Maximo Banados (Chile U., Catolica), Alberto T. Faraggi (Michigan U.), Stefan Theisen (Potsdam, Max Planck Inst.)	 Abstract: The four dimensional Godel spacetime is known to have the structure M_3 x R. It is also known that the three-dimensional factor M_3 is an exact solution of three-dimensional gravity coupled to a Maxwell-Chern-Simons theory. We build in this paper a N=2 supergravity extension for this action and prove that the Godel background preserves half of all supersymmetries. 
0704.02466	Is diversity good?	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Mathieu Bouville	 Abstract: Prominent ethical and policy issues such as affirmative action and female enrollment in science and engineering revolve around the idea that diversity is good. However, even though diversity is an ambiguous concept, a precise definition is seldom provided. We show that diversity may be construed as a factual description, a craving for symmetry, an intrinsic good, an instrumental good, a symptom, or a side effect. These acceptions differ vastly in their nature and properties. The first one cannot lead to any action and the second one is mistaken. Diversity as intrinsic good is a mere opinion, which cannot be concretely applied; moreover, the most commonly invoked forms of diversity (sexual and racial) are not intrinsically good. On the other hand, diversity as instrumental good can be evaluated empirically and can give rise to policies, but these may be very weak. Finally, symptoms and side effects are not actually about diversity. We consider the example of female enrollment in science and engineering, interpreting the various arguments found in the literature in light of this polysemy. Keywords: ethics, policy, higher education, female students, minority students, affirmative action 
0704.02467	Coupled Painlevé III systems with affine Weyl group symmetry of types  $B_5^{(1)},D_5^{(1)}$ and $D_6^{(2)}$	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yusuke Sasano	 Abstract: We find and study four kinds of five-parameter family of six-dimensional coupled Painlev\'e III systems with affine Weyl group symmetry of types $D_5^{(1)},B_5^{(1)}$ and $D_6^{(2)}$. We show that each system is equivalent by an explicit birational and symplectic transformation, respectively. We also show that we characterize each system from the viewpoint of holomorphy. 
0704.02468	Dirac quasinormal modes of D-dimensional de Sitter spacetime	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:A. Lopez-Ortega	 Abstract: We find exact solutions to the Dirac equation in D-dimensional de Sitter spacetime. Using these solutions we analytically calculate the de Sitter quasinormal (QN) frequencies of the Dirac field. For the massive Dirac field this computation is similar to that previously published for massive fields of half-integer spin moving in four dimensions. However to calculate the QN frequencies of the massless Dirac field we must use distinct methods in odd and even dimensions, therefore the computation is different from that already known for other massless fields of integer spin. 
0704.02469	The young, wide and very low mass visual binary LOri167	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D. Barrado y Navascues, A. Bayo, M. Morales-Calderon, N. Huelamo, J.R. Stauffer, H. Bouy	 Abstract: We look for wide, faint companions around members of the 5 Myr Lambda Orionis open cluster. We used optical, near-infrared, and Spitzer/IRAC photometry. We report the discovery of a very wide very low mass visual binary, LOri167, formed by a brown dwarf and a planetary-mass candidate located at 5 arcsec, which seems to belong to the cluster. We derive Teff of 2125 and 1750 K. If they are members, comparisons with theoretical models indicate masses of 17 (20-15) Mjup and 8 (13-7) Mjup, with a projected separation of 2000 AU. Such a binary system would be difficult to explain in most models, particularly those where substellar objects form in the disks surrounding higher mass stars. 
0704.02470	Discontinuity of the Lempert function and the Kobayashi--Royden metric  of the spectral ball	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Nikolai Nikolov, Pascal J. Thomas, Wlodzimierz Zwonek	 Abstract: Some results on the discontinuity properties of the Lempert function and the Kobayashi pseudometric in the spectral ball are given. 
0704.02471	Tropical spectral curves and integrable cellular automata	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Rei Inoue, Tomoyuki Takenawa	 Abstract: We propose a method to study the integrable cellular automata with periodic boundary conditions, via the tropical spectral curve and its Jacobian. We introduce the tropical version of eigenvector map from the isolevel set to a divisor class on the tropical hyperelliptic curve. We also provide some conjectures related to the divisor class and the Jacobian. Finally, we apply our method to the periodic box and ball system and clarify the algebro-geometrical meaning of the real torus introduced for its initial value problem. 
0704.02472	General solutions of the Wess-Zumino consistency condition for the Weyl  anomalies	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Nicolas Boulanger	 Abstract: The general solutions of the Wess-Zumino consistency condition for the conformal (or Weyl, or trace) anomalies are derived. The solutions are obtained, in arbitrary dimensions, by explicitly computing the cohomology of the corresponding Becchi-Rouet-Stora-Tyutin differential in the space of integrated local functions at ghost number unity. This provides a purely algebraic, regularization-independent classification of the Weyl anomalies in arbitrary dimensions. The so-called type-A anomaly is shown to satisfy a non-trivial descent of equations, similarly to the non-Abelian chiral anomaly in Yang-Mills theory. 
0704.02473	Conservation laws. Generation of physical fields. Principles of field  theories	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:L.I. Petrova	 Abstract: In the paper the role of conservation laws in evolutionary processes, which proceed in material systems (in material media) and lead to generation of physical fields, is shown using skew-symmetric differential forms. In present paper the skew-symmetric differential forms on deforming (nondifferentiable) manifolds were used in addition to exterior forms, which have differentiable manifolds as a basis. Such skew-symmetric forms (which were named evolutionary ones since they possess evolutionary properties), as well as the closed exterior forms, describe the conservation laws. But in contrast to exterior forms, which describe conservation laws for physical fields, the evolutionary forms correspond to conservation laws for material systems. The evolutionary forms possess an unique peculiarity, namely, the closed exterior forms are obtained from these forms. It is just this that enables one to describe the process of generation of physical fields, to disclose connection between physical fields and material systems and to resolve many problems of existing field theories. 
0704.02474	Observation of Multiple folding Pathways of beta-hairpin Trpzip2 from  Independent Continuous Folding Trajectories	Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)	Authors:Changjun Chen, Yi Xiao	 Abstract: We report 10 successfully folding events of trpzip2 by molecular dynamics simulation. It is found that the trizip2 can fold into its native state through different zipper pathways, depending on the ways of forming hydrophobic core. We also find a very fast non-zipper pathway. This indicates that there may be no inconsistencies in the current pictures of beta-hairpin folding mechanisms. These pathways occur with different probabilities. zip-out is the most probable one. This may explain the recent experiment that the turn formation is the rate-limiting step for beta-hairpin folding. 
0704.02475	Physical Layer Network Coding	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Zhang Shengli, Soung-Chang Liew, Patrick P.K. Lam	 Abstract: A main distinguishing feature of a wireless network compared with a wired network is its broadcast nature, in which the signal transmitted by a node may reach several other nodes, and a node may receive signals from several other nodes simultaneously. Rather than a blessing, this feature is treated more as an interference-inducing nuisance in most wireless networks today (e.g., IEEE 802.11). This paper shows that the concept of network coding can be applied at the physical layer to turn the broadcast property into a capacity-boosting advantage in wireless ad hoc networks. Specifically, we propose a physical-layer network coding (PNC) scheme to coordinate transmissions among nodes. In contrast to straightforward network coding which performs coding arithmetic on digital bit streams after they have been received, PNC makes use of the additive nature of simultaneously arriving electromagnetic (EM) waves for equivalent coding operation. And in doing so, PNC can potentially achieve 100% and 50% throughput increases compared with traditional transmission and straightforward network coding, respectively, in multi-hop networks. More specifically, the information-theoretic capacity of PNC is almost double that of traditional transmission in the SNR region of practical interest (higher than 0dB). We believe this is a first paper that ventures into EM-wave-based network coding at the physical layer and demonstrates its potential for boosting network capacity. 
0704.02476	Coupled Painlevé III systems with affine Weyl group symmetry of types  $B_4^{(1)}$, $D_4^{(1)}$ and $D_5^{(2)}$	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yusuke Sasano	 Abstract: We find and study four kinds of a 4-parameter family of four-dimensional coupled Painlev\'e III systems with affine Weyl group symmetry of types $B_4^{(1)}$, $D_4^{(1)}$ and $D_5^{(2)}$. We also show that these systems are equivalent by an explicit birational and symplectic transformation, respectively. 
0704.02477	Effective interactions and large-scale diagonalization for quantum dots	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Simen Kvaal, Morten Hjorth-Jensen, Halvor Moll Nilsen	 Abstract: The widely used large-scale diagonalization method using harmonic oscillator basis functions (an instance of the Rayleigh-Ritz method, also called a spectral method, configuration-interaction method, or ``exact diagonalization'' method) is systematically analyzed using results for the convergence of Hermite function series. We apply this theory to a Hamiltonian for a one-dimensional model of a quantum dot. The method is shown to converge slowly, and the non-smooth character of the interaction potential is identified as the main problem with the chosen basis, while on the other hand its important advantages are pointed out. An effective interaction obtained by a similarity transformation is proposed for improving the convergence of the diagonalization scheme, and numerical experiments are performed to demonstrate the improvement. Generalizations to more particles and dimensions are discussed. 
0704.02478	Coupled Painlevé VI systems in dimension four with affine Weyl group  symmetry of types $B_6^{(1)}$, $D_6^{(1)}$ and $D_7^{(2)}$	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yusuke Sasano	 Abstract: We find four kinds of six-parameter family of coupled Painlev\'e VI systems in dimension four with affine Weyl group symmetry of types $B_6^{(1)}$, $D_6^{(1)}$ and $D_7^{(2)}$. Each system is the first example which gave higher-order Painlev\'e equations of types $B_l^{(1)},D_l^{(1)}$ and $D_l^{(2)}$, respectively. Each system can be expressed as a polynomial Hamiltonian system. We show that these systems are equivalent by an explicit birational and symplectic transformation, respectively. By giving each holomorphy condition, we can recover each system. These symmetries, holomorphy conditions and invariant divisors are new. We also give an explicit description of a confluence process from the system of type $D_6^{(1)}$ to the system of type $A_5^{(1)}$ by taking the coupling confluence process from the Painlev\'e VI system to the Painlev\'e V system. 
0704.02479	Strong-field approximation for Coulomb explosion of H_2^+ by short  intense laser pulses	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:H. A. Leth, L. M. Madsen, J. F. McCann	 Abstract: We present a simple quantum mechanical model to describe Coulomb explosion of H$_2^+$ by short, intense, infrared laser pulses. The model is based on the length gauge version of the molecular strong-field approximation and is valid for pulses shorter than 50 fs where the process of dissociation prior to ionization is negligible. The results are compared with recent experimental results for the proton energy spectrum [I. Ben-Itzhak et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 073002 (2005), B. D. Esry et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 013003 (2006)]. The predictions of the model reproduce the profile of the spectrum although the peak energy is slightly lower than the observations. For comparison, we also present results obtained by two different tunneling models for this process. 
0704.02480	Magnetic Coupling and Long-Range Order in the Spin-Chain Sulphide  Ba2cos3	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Andrew D. J. Barnes, Thomas Baikie, Vincent Hardy (CRISMAT), Marie-Bernadette Lepetit (CRISMAT), Antoine Maignan (CRISMAT), Nigel A. Young, M. Grazia Francesconi	 Abstract: In this paper, we report on the magnetic properties of Ba2CoS3, a spin-chain compound recently found to be the first Co2+ containing one-dimensional sulphide to show metallic-like conductivity and negative magnetoresistance. We carried out an in-depth experimental investigation of the local structure of the cobalt atoms, and ab-initio calculations of the resulting electronic configuration of Co2+. From theoretical considerations, the intra-chain coupling was predicted to be antiferromagnetic. Experimentally, several estimates of this magnetic coupling were derived by analysing the temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility. Magnetic and heat capacity measurements also provided evidence of a three-dimensional antiferromagnetic ordering, a feature indicative of a noticeable inter-chain coupling in this quasi-1D system. 
0704.02481	Lineare Rekurrenzen, Potenzreihen und ihre erzeugenden Funktionen	History and Overview (math.HO)	Authors:Ralf Stephan	 Abstract: Diese kurze Einfuehrung in Theorie und Berechnung linearer Rekurrenzen versucht, eine Luecke in der Literatur zu fuellen. Zu diesem Zweck sind viele ausfuehrliche Beispiele angegeben. This short introduction to theory and usage of linear recurrences tries to fill a gap in the literature by giving many extensive examples. 
0704.02482	Effective SO Superpotential for N=1 Theory with N_f Fundamental Matter	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Pravina Borhade, P. Ramadevi	 Abstract: Motivated by the duality conjecture of Dijkgraaf and Vafa between supersymmetric gauge theories and matrix models, we derive the effective superpotential of N=1 supersymmetric gauge theory with gauge group SO(N_c) and arbitrary tree level polynomial superpotential of one chiral superfield in the adjoint representation and N_f fundamental matter multiplets. For a special point in the classical vacuum where the gauge group is unbroken, we show that the effective superpotential matches with that obtained from the geometric engineering approach. 
0704.02483	Un module inversible associé au ruban de Möbius, et quelques autres	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:Daniel Ferrand (IRMAR)	 Abstract: After attaching explicitly to the M\"obius strip an invertible module over the ring of real polynomial functions on the real circle, we expound as directly as possible the many faces and the main algebraic properties of invertible modules. The goal is to make this algebraic concept accessible to a wide mathematical audience. 
0704.02484	On Larkin-Imry-Ma State of 3He-A in Aerogel	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:G. E. Volovik	 Abstract: Superfluid 3He-A shares the properties of spin nematic and chiral orbital ferromagnet. Its order parameter is characterized by two vectors d and l. This doubly anisotropic superfluid, when it is confined in aerogel, represents the most interesting example of a system with continuous symmetry in the presence of random anisotropy disorder. We discuss the Larkin-Imry-Ma state, which is characterized by the short-range orientational order of the vector l, while the long-range orientational order is destroyed by the collective action of the randomly oriented aerogel strings. On the other hand, sufficiently large regular anisotropy produced either by the deformation of the aerogel or by applied superflow suppresses the Larkin-Imry-Ma effect leading to the uniform orientation of the vector l. This interplay of regular and random anisotropy allows us to study many different effects. 
0704.02485	Substrate temperature changes during MBE growth of GaMnAs	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:V. Novak, K. Olejnik, M. Cukr, L. Smrcka, Z. Remes, J. Oswald	 Abstract: Remarkably big increase of the substrate temperature during the low-temperature MBE growth of GaMnAs layers is observed by means of band gap spectroscopy. It is explained and simulated in terms of changes in the absorption/emission characteristics of the growing layer. Options for the temperature variation damping are discussed. 
0704.02486	Testing the gamma-ray burst variability/peak luminosity correlation on a  Swift homogeneous sample	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D. Rizzuto (1), C. Guidorzi (1,2), P. Romano (1,2), S. Covino (2), S. Campana (2), M. Capalbi (3), G. Chincarini (1,2), G. Cusumano (4), D. Fugazza (2), V. Mangano (4), A. Moretti (2), M. Perri (3), G. Tagliaferri (2) ((1) Univ.Bicocca, (2) INAF-OABrera, (3) ASI-ASDC, (4) INAF-IASF Pa)	 Abstract: We test the gamma-ray burst correlation between temporal variability and peak luminosity of the $\gamma$-ray profile on a homogeneous sample of 36 Swift/BAT GRBs with firm redshift determination. This is the first time that this correlation can be tested on a homogeneous data sample. The correlation is confirmed, as long as the 6 GRBs with low luminosity (<5x10^{50} erg s^{-1} in the rest-frame 100-1000 keV energy band) are ignored. We confirm that the considerable scatter of the correlation already known is not due to the combination of data from different instruments with different energy bands, but it is intrinsic to the correlation itself. Thanks to the unprecedented sensitivity of Swift/BAT, the variability/peak luminosity correlation is tested on low-luminosity GRBs. Our results show that these GRBs are definite outliers. 
0704.02487	Reentrance effect in a graphene n-p-n junction coupled to a  superconductor	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:A. Ossipov, M. Titov, C. W. J. Beenakker	 Abstract: We study the interplay of Klein tunneling (= interband tunneling) between n-doped and p-doped regions in graphene and Andreev reflection (= electron-hole conversion) at a superconducting electrode. The tunneling conductance of an n-p-n junction initially increases upon lowering the temperature, while the coherence time of the electron-hole pairs is still less than their lifetime, but then drops back again when the coherence time exceeds the lifetime. This reentrance effect, known from diffusive conductors and ballistic quantum dots, provides a method to detect phase coherent Klein tunneling of electron-hole pairs. 
0704.02488	Supercritical geometric optics for nonlinear Schrodinger equations	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Thomas Alazard (LM-Orsay), Rémi Carles (I3M)	 Abstract: We consider the small time semi-classical limit for nonlinear Schrodinger equations with defocusing, smooth, nonlinearity. For a super-cubic nonlinearity, the limiting system is not directly hyperbolic, due to the presence of vacuum. To overcome this issue, we introduce new unknown functions, which are defined nonlinearly in terms of the wave function itself. This approach provides a local version of the modulated energy functional introduced by Y.Brenier. The system we obtain is hyperbolic symmetric, and the justification of WKB analysis follows. 
0704.02489	On the change of latitude of Arctic East Siberia at the end of the  Pleistocene	Geophysics (physics.geo-ph)	Authors:W. Woelfli, W. Baltensperger	 Abstract: Mammoths lived in Arctic East Siberia. In this region there is not sufficient sunlight over the year for the growth of the plants on which these animals feed. Therefore the latitude of this region was lower before the end of the Pleistocene. As the cause of this geographic pole shift, we postulate a massive object, which moved in an extremely eccentric orbit and was hot from tidal work and solar radiation. Evaporation produced a disk-shaped cloud of ions around the Sun. This cloud partially shielded the solar radiation, producing the cold and warm periods that characterize the Pleistocene. The shielding depends on the inclination of Earth's orbit, which has a period of 100'000 years. The cloud builds up to a density at which inelastic particle collisions induce its collapse The resulting near-periodic time dependence resembles that of Dansgaard-Oeschger events. During cold periods fine grained inclusions were deposited into the ice. The Pleistocene ended when the massive object had a close encounter with the Earth, which suffered a one per mil stretching deformation. While the deformation relaxed to an equilibrium shape in one to several years, the globe turned relative to the rotation axis: The North Pole moved from Greenland to the Arctic Sea. The massive object was torn to pieces, which evaporated. 
0704.02490	Supersymmetry breaking by constant superpotentials and O'Raifeartaigh  model in warped space	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Nobuhiro Uekusa	 Abstract: Supersymmetry breaking together by constant boundary superpotentials and by the O'Raifeartaigh model is studied in a warped space model. It is shown that the contribution of constant boundary superpotentials enables the moduli of chiral supermultiplets to be stabilized and that the vacuum at the stationary point has zero cosmological constant in a wide region of parameters. 
0704.02491	On the Stability Functional for Conservation Laws	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Rinaldo M. Colombo, Graziano Guerra	 Abstract: This note is devoted to the explicit construction of a functional defined on all pairs of $\L1$ functions with small total variation, which is equivalent to the $\L1$ distance and non increasing along the trajectories of a given system of conservation laws. Two different constructions are provided, yielding an extension of the original stability functional by Bressan, Liu and Yang. 
0704.02492	Structural adaptation via $L_p$-norm oracle inequalities	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:A. Goldenhsluger, O. Lepski	 Abstract: In this paper we study the problem of adaptive estimation of a multivariate function satisfying some structural assumption. We propose a novel estimation procedure that adapts simultaneously to unknown structure and smoothness of the underlying function. The problem of structural adaptation is stated as the problem of selection from a given collection of estimators. We develop a general selection rule and establish for it global oracle inequalities under arbitrary $\rL_p$--losses. These results are applied for adaptive estimation in the additive multi--index model. 
0704.02493	The study of $B_c^- \to X(3872)π^-(K^-)$ Decays in the Covariant  Light-Front Approach	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Wei Wang, Yue-Long Shen, Cai-Dian Lu (IHEP, Beijing)	 Abstract: In the covariant light-front quark model, we calculate the form factors of $B_c^-\to J/\psi$ and $B_c^-\to X(3872)$. Since the factorization of the exclusive processes $B_c^- \to J/\psi\pi^-(K^-)$ and $B_c^- \to X(3872)\pi^-(K^-)$ can be proved in the soft-collinear effective theory, we can get the branching ratios for these decays easily from the form factors. Taking the uncertainties into account, our results for the branching ratio of $B_c^-\to J/\psi \pi^-(K^-)$ are consistent with the previous studies. By identifying X(3872) as a $1^{++}$ charmonium state, we obtain ${\cal BR}(B_c^-\to X(3872)\pi^-)=(1.7^{+0.7+0.1+0.4}_{-0.6-0.2-0.4}) \times 10^{-4}$ and ${\cal BR}(B_c^-\to X(3872)K^-)=(1.3^{+0.5+0.1+0.3}_{-0.5-0.2-0.3})\times 10^{-5}$. If assuming X(3872) as a $1^{--}$ state, the branching ratios will be one order magnitude larger than those of $1^{++}$ state. These results can be easily used to test the charmonium description for this mysterious meson X(3872) at LHCb experiment. 
0704.02494	The effect of stellar-mass black holes on the structural evolution of  massive star clusters	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A.D. Mackey (1), M.I. Wilkinson (2), M.B. Davies (3), G.F. Gilmore (4) ((1) University of Edinburgh, (2) University of Leicester, (3) Lund University, (4) University of Cambridge)	 Abstract: We present the results of realistic N-body modelling of massive star clusters in the Magellanic Clouds, aimed at investigating a dynamical origin for the radius-age trend observed in these systems. We find that stellar-mass black holes, formed in the supernova explosions of the most massive cluster stars, can constitute a dynamically important population. If a significant number of black holes are retained (here we assume complete retention), these objects rapidly form a dense core where interactions are common, resulting in the scattering of black holes into the cluster halo, and the ejection of black holes from the cluster. These two processes heat the stellar component, resulting in prolonged core expansion of a magnitude matching the observations. Significant core evolution is also observed in Magellanic Cloud clusters at early times. We find that this does not result from the action of black holes, but can be reproduced by the effects of mass-loss due to rapid stellar evolution in a primordially mass segregated cluster. 
0704.02495	Full bandstructure calculation of second harmonic generation  susceptibility of $α-LiIO_{3}$ crystal	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Yung-mau Nie	 Abstract: The present work performs full bandstructure calculations to investigate the structural effect and the transition mechanisms of the second harmonic generation (SHG) susceptibility of the $\alpha-LiIO_{3}$ crystal. The anomalous inconsistency of associated experimental data of the SHG susceptibility tensor is elucidated to be dominated by the structural effect especially on the topology of $O$-atoms. On the manipulation of the structural effect, the modification of SHG susceptibility using an external pressure is simulated. The calculations of SHG susceptibility tensor are completed at finite frequencies and the static limit. The comparison with the experiments is also incorporated. On the analysis of the transition mechanisms, the inter-band transition is determined to entirely dominate the whole SHG susceptibility at the static limit; however, the effect of the intra-band motion is revealed to be as important as that of the inter-band transition at finite frequencies. 
0704.02496	Phase Boundary of the Boson Mott Insulator in a Rotating Optical Lattice	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:R. O. Umucalilar, M. O. Oktel	 Abstract: We consider the Bose-Hubbard model in a two dimensional rotating optical lattice and investigate the consequences of the effective magnetic field created by rotation. Using a Gutzwiller type variational wavefunction, we find an analytical expression for the Mott insulator(MI)-Superfluid(SF) transition boundary in terms of the maximum eigenvalue of the Hofstadter butterfly. The dependence of phase boundary on the effective magnetic field is complex, reflecting the self-similar properties of the single particle energy spectrum. Finally, we argue that fractional quantum Hall phases exist close to the MI-SF transition boundaries, including MI states with particle densities greater than one. 
0704.02497	Current-Induced Switching of a Single-Molecule Magnet with Arbitrary  Oriented Easy Axis	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Maciej Misiorny, Józef Barnas	 Abstract: The main objective of this work is to investigate theoretically how tilting of an easy axis of a single-molecule magnet (SMM) from the orientation collinear with magnetic moments of the leads affects the switching process induced by current flowing through the system. To do this we consider a model system that consists of a SMM embedded in the nonmagnetic barrier of a magnetic tunnel junction. The anisotropy axis of the SMM forms an arbitrary angle with magnetic moments of the leads (the latter ones are assumed to be collinear). The reversal of the SMM's spin takes place due to exchange interaction between the molecule and electrons tunneling through the barrier. The current flowing through the system as well as the average z-component of the SMM's spin are calculated in the second-order perturbation description (Fermi golden rule). 
0704.02498	Pure Point spectrum for measure dynamical systems on locally compact  Abelian groups	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Daniel Lenz, Nicolae Strungaru	 Abstract: We show equivalence of pure point diffraction and pure point dynamical spectrum for measurable dynamical systems build from locally finite measures on locally compact Abelian groups. This generalizes all earlier results of this type. Our approach is based on a study of almost periodicity in a Hilbert space. It allows us to set up a perturbation theory for arbitrary equivariant measurable perturbations. 
0704.02499	Electromagnetic Dark Energy and Gravitoelectrodynamics of  Superconductors	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Clovis Jacinto de Matos	 Abstract: It is shown that Beck and Mackey electromagnetic model of dark energy in superconductors can account for the non-classical inertial properties of superconductors, which have been conjectured by the author to explain the Cooper pair's mass excess reported by Cabrera and Tate. A new Einstein-Planck regime for gravitation in condensed matter is proposed as a natural scale to host the gravitoelectrodynamic properties of superconductors. 
0704.02500	A universal procedure for aggregating estimators	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Alexander Goldenshluger	 Abstract: In this paper we study the aggregation problem that can be formulated as follows. Assume that we have a family of estimators $\mathcal{F}$ built on the basis of available observations. The goal is to construct a new estimator whose risk is as close as possible to that of the best estimator in the family. We propose a general aggregation scheme that is universal in the following sense: it applies for families of arbitrary estimators and a wide variety of models and global risk measures. The procedure is based on comparison of empirical estimates of certain linear functionals with estimates induced by the family $\mathcal{F}$. We derive oracle inequalities and show that they are unimprovable in some sense. Numerical results demonstrate good practical behavior of the procedure. 
0704.02501	Competing itinerant and localized states in strongly correlated BaVS$_3$	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Frank Lechermann, Silke Biermann, Antoine Georges	 Abstract: The electronic structure of the quasi-lowdimensional vanadium sulfide \bavs3 is investigated for the different phases above the magnetic ordering temperature. By means of density functional theory and its combination with dynamical-mean field theory, we follow the evolution of the relevant low-energy electronic states on cooling. Hence we go in the metallic regime from the room temperature hexagonal phase to the orthorhombic phase after the first structural transition, and close with the monoclinic insulating phase below the metal-insulator transition. Due to the low symmetry and expected intersite correlations, the latter phase is treated within cellular dynamical mean-field theory. It is generally discussed how the intriguing interplay between band-structure and strong-correlation effects leads to the stabilization of the various electronic phases with decreasing temperature. 
0704.02502	Dimerization and Fusion of two C60 Molecules	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Narinder Kaur, K. Dharamvir, V. K. Jindal	 Abstract: We investigate the dimerization and fusion of C60 molecules to form various C60 dimers when pushed against each other at several inter-molecular distances. We study the stability of this dimerized C60 molecule based on its binding strength provided by intramolecular interactions. Tersoff potential, which is considered to represent intramolecular interactions well, has been used to calculate potential energy at these distances of separation and for all possible orientations of the molecules. We observe that several minimum energy configurations exist at various distances between the C60 molecules. Our calculation shows that apart from the dumbbell structures, many interesting composite phases also result, such as fused, peanut and carbon nanotubes of geometry (5,5) and (10,0) of certain specific length. 
0704.02503	Homotopy coherent nerve in Deformation theory	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:V. Hinich	 Abstract: In this note we explain that homotopy coherent simplicial nerve has to used intead of the standard definition in the author's papers on formal deformation theory. A convenient version of the notion of fibered category is presented which is useful once one works with simplicial categories. 
0704.02504	Behaviour of a Bucky-ball under Internal and External Pressures	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Narinder Kaur, Shuchi Gupta, Keya Dharamvir, V. K. Jindal	 Abstract: We study the behaviour of the C60 molecule under very high internal or external pressure using Tersoff as well as Brenner potentials. As a result, we estimate the critical internal and external pressures that lead to its instability. We also calculate stretching force constant and bulk modulus of this molecule at several pressures under which the molecule remains stable. The values of these estimated here at zero pressure agree closely with those obtained in earlier calculations. We also observe that at high pressures, a finite value of parameter of Tersoff potential gives physically acceptable results in contrast to its value zero, which is usually taken for the carbon systems. 
0704.02505	Algebraic Distributed Space-Time Codes with Low ML Decoding Complexity	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:G. Susinder Rajan, B. Sundar Rajan	 Abstract: "Extended Clifford algebras" are introduced as a means to obtain low ML decoding complexity space-time block codes. Using left regular matrix representations of two specific classes of extended Clifford algebras, two systematic algebraic constructions of full diversity Distributed Space-Time Codes (DSTCs) are provided for any power of two number of relays. The left regular matrix representation has been shown to naturally result in space-time codes meeting the additional constraints required for DSTCs. The DSTCs so constructed have the salient feature of reduced Maximum Likelihood (ML) decoding complexity. In particular, the ML decoding of these codes can be performed by applying the lattice decoder algorithm on a lattice of four times lesser dimension than what is required in general. Moreover these codes have a uniform distribution of power among the relays and in time, thus leading to a low Peak to Average Power Ratio at the relays. 
0704.02506	Isotropic cosmological singularities in spatially-homogeneous models  with a cosmological constant	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Paul Tod	 Abstract: We prove well-posedness of the initial value problem for the Einstein equations for spatially-homogeneous cosmologies with data at an isotropic cosmological singularity, for which the matter content is either a cosmological constant with collisionless particles of a single mass (possibly zero) or a cosmological constant with a perfect fluid having the radiation equation of state. In both cases, with a positive cosmological constant, these solutions, except possibly for Bianchi-type-IX, will expand forever, and be geodesically-complete into the future. 
0704.02507	STBCs from Representation of Extended Clifford Algebras	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:G. Susinder Rajan, B. Sundar Rajan	 Abstract: A set of sufficient conditions to construct $\lambda$-real symbol Maximum Likelihood (ML) decodable STBCs have recently been provided by Karmakar et al. STBCs satisfying these sufficient conditions were named as Clifford Unitary Weight (CUW) codes. In this paper, the maximal rate (as measured in complex symbols per channel use) of CUW codes for $\lambda=2^a,a\in\mathbb{N}$ is obtained using tools from representation theory. Two algebraic constructions of codes achieving this maximal rate are also provided. One of the constructions is obtained using linear representation of finite groups whereas the other construction is based on the concept of right module algebra over non-commutative rings. To the knowledge of the authors, this is the first paper in which matrices over non-commutative rings is used to construct STBCs. An algebraic explanation is provided for the 'ABBA' construction first proposed by Tirkkonen et al and the tensor product construction proposed by Karmakar et al. Furthermore, it is established that the 4 transmit antenna STBC originally proposed by Tirkkonen et al based on the ABBA construction is actually a single complex symbol ML decodable code if the design variables are permuted and signal sets of appropriate dimensions are chosen. 
0704.02508	Analyticity of strictly static and strictly stationary, inheriting and  non-inheriting Einstein-Maxwell solutions	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Paul Tod	 Abstract: Following the technique of M\"uller-zum-Hagen, refs [1,2], we show that strictly static and strictly stationary solutions of the Einstein-Maxwell equations are analytic in harmonic coordinates. This holds whether or not the Maxwell field inherits the symmetry. 
0704.02509	Signal Set Design for Full-Diversity Low-Decoding-Complexity  Differential Scaled-Unitary STBCs	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:G. Susinder Rajan, B. Sundar Rajan	 Abstract: The problem of designing high rate, full diversity noncoherent space-time block codes (STBCs) with low encoding and decoding complexity is addressed. First, the notion of $g$-group encodable and $g$-group decodable linear STBCs is introduced. Then for a known class of rate-1 linear designs, an explicit construction of fully-diverse signal sets that lead to four-group encodable and four-group decodable differential scaled unitary STBCs for any power of two number of antennas is provided. Previous works on differential STBCs either sacrifice decoding complexity for higher rate or sacrifice rate for lower decoding complexity. 
0704.02510	Controlling Phase Space Caustics in the Semiclassical Coherent State  Propagator	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:A. D. Ribeiro, M. A. M. de Aguiar	 Abstract: The semiclassical formula for the quantum propagator in the coherent state representation $<\mathbf{z}'' | e^{-i\hat{H}T/\hbar} | \mathbf{z}'>$ is not free from the problem of caustics. These are singular points along the complex classical trajectories specified by $\mathbf{z}'$, $\mathbf{z}''$ and $T$ where the usual quadratic approximation fails, leading to divergences in the semiclassical formula. In this paper we derive third order approximations for this propagator that remain finite in the vicinity of caustics. We use Maslov's method and the dual representation proposed in Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 95}, 050405 (2005) to derive uniform, regular and transitional semiclassical approximations for coherent state propagator in systems with two degrees of freedom. 
0704.02511	Noncoherent Low-Decoding-Complexity Space-Time Codes for Wireless Relay  Networks	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:G. Susinder Rajan, B. Sundar Rajan	 Abstract: The differential encoding/decoding setup introduced by Kiran et al, Oggier et al and Jing et al for wireless relay networks that use codebooks consisting of unitary matrices is extended to allow codebooks consisting of scaled unitary matrices. For such codebooks to be used in the Jing-Hassibi protocol for cooperative diversity, the conditions that need to be satisfied by the relay matrices and the codebook are identified. A class of previously known rate one, full diversity, four-group encodable and four-group decodable Differential Space-Time Codes (DSTCs) is proposed for use as Distributed DSTCs (DDSTCs) in the proposed set up. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first known low decoding complexity DDSTC scheme for cooperative wireless networks. 
0704.02512	Postnikov-Stability for Complexes	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Georg Hein, David Ploog	 Abstract: We present a novel notion of stable objects in the derived category of coherent sheaves on a smooth projective variety. As one application we compactify a moduli space of stable bundles using genuine complexes. 
0704.02513	Reaching the Holevo Capacity via von Neumann measurement, and its use	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:L. Farkas	 Abstract: In this article we show that the Holevo capacity of a classical quantum channel, can be reached not only by a POVM but by von Neumann measurement too. Furthermore we show two use of this fact 1) We can generalize the classical compound channel to quantum environment and with this new measure technique we can give an optimal coding/decoding algorithm to it. 2) We give an algorithm, with it a classical system can be decoded by quantum apparatus in linear time, which is a surprising result, because best known optimal classical decoding algorithm need n*log(n) time. This means that if a quantum machine can perform arbitrarily von Neumann measurement with only two possible outcome, then it can solve non-polynomial classical problems in linear time. 
0704.02514	A relativistic calculation of the deuteron threshold  electrodisintegration at backward angles	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:A. Arriaga, R. Schiavilla	 Abstract: The threshold electrodisintegration of the deuteron at backward angles is studied with a relativistic Hamiltonian, including a relativistic one-pion-exchange potential (OPEP) with off-shell terms as predicted by pseudovector coupling of pions to nucleons. The bound and scattering states are obtained in the center-of-mass frame, and then boosted from it to the Breit frame, where the evaluation of the relevant matrix elements of the electromagnetic current operator is carried out. The latter includes, in addition to one-body, also two-body terms due to pion exchange, as obtained, consistently with the OPEP, in pseudovector pion-nucleon coupling theory. The full Lorentz structure of these currents is retained. In order to estimate the magnitude of the relativistic effects we perform, for comparison, the calculation with a non-relativistic phase-equivalent Hamiltonian and the standard non-relativistic expressions for the one-body and two-body pion-exchange currents. Our results for the electrodisintegration cross section show that, in the calculations using one-body currents, relativistic corrections become significant ({\it i.e.}, larger than 10%) only at high momentum transfer $Q$ ($Q^2 \simeq 40$fm$^{-2}$ and beyond). However, the inclusion of two-body currents makes the relativistic predictions considerably smaller than the corresponding non-relativistic results in the $Q^2$ region (18--40) fm$^{-2}$. The calculations based on the relativistic model also confirm the inadequacy, already established in a non-relativistic context, of the present electromagnetic current model to reproduce accurately the experimental data at intermediate values of momentum transfers. 
0704.02515	Perspectives for the detection and measurement of Supersymmetry in the  focus point region of mSUGRA models with the ATLAS detector at LHC	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:U. De Sanctis, T. Lari, S. Montesano, C. Troncon	 Abstract: This paper discusses the ATLAS potential to study Supersymmetry for the "Focus-Point" region of the parameter space of mSUGRA models. The potential to discovery a deviation from Standard Model expectations with the first few ${fb}^{-1}$ of LHC data was studied using the parametrized simulation of the ATLAS detector. Several signatures were considered, involving hard jets, large missing energy, and either $b$-tagged jets, opposite-sign isolated electron or muon pairs, or top quarks reconstructed exploiting their fully hadronic decays. With only 1 ${fb}^{-1}$ of data each of these signatures may allow to observe an excess of events over Standard Model expectation with a statistical significance exceeding 5 standard deviations. An analytical expression was derived for the shape of the distribution of the dilepton invariant mass arising from the three-body leptonic decay of the neutralinos under the hypothesis of heavy scalars, which is appropriate for the focus-point scenario. The resulting function was used to fit the distribution of the dilepton invariant mass obtained with simulated LHC data, and to extract the value of two kinematic endpoints measuring the $\tilde \chi^0_2 - \tilde \chi^0_1$ and the $\tilde \chi^0_3 - \tilde \chi^0_1$ mass differences. This information was used to constrain the MSSM parameter space compatible with the data. 
0704.02516	On groups of central type, non-degenerate and bijective cohomology  classes	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:Nir Ben David, Yuval Ginosar	 Abstract: A finite group $G$ is of central type (in the non-classical sense) if it admits a non-degenerate cohomology class $[c]\in H^2(G,\C^*)$ ($G$ acts trivially on $\C^*$). Groups of central type play a fundamental role in the classification of semisimple triangular complex Hopf algebras and can be determined by their representation theoretical properties. Suppose that a finite group $Q$ acts on an abelian group $A$ so that there exists a bijective 1-cocycle $\pi\in Z^1(Q,\ach)$, where $\ach=\rm{Hom}(A,\C^*)$ is endowed with the diagonal $Q$-action. Under this assumption, Etingof and Gelaki gave an explicit formula for a non-degenerate 2-cocycle in $Z^2(G,\C^*)$, where $G:=A\rtimes Q$. Hence, the semidirect product $G$ is of central type. In this paper we present a more general correspondence between bijective and non-degenerate cohomology classes. In particular, given a bijective class $[\pi]\in H^1(Q,\ach)$ as above, we construct non-degenerate classes $[c_{\pi}]\in H^2(G,\C^*)$ for certain extensions $1\to A\to G\to Q\to 1$ which are not necessarily split. We thus strictly extend the above family of central type groups. 
0704.02517	V-Langevin Equations, Continuous Time Random Walks and Fractional  Diffusion	Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)	Authors:Radu Balescu	 Abstract: The following question is addressed: under what conditions can a strange diffusive process, defined by a semi-dynamical V-Langevin equation or its associated Hybrid kinetic equation (HKE), be described by an equivalent purely stochastic process, defined by a Continuous Time Random Walk (CTRW) or by a Fractional Differential Equation (FDE)? More specifically, does there exist a class of V-Langevin equations with long-range (algebraic) velocity temporal correlation, that leads to a time-fractional superdiffusive process? The answer is always affirmative in one dimension. It is always negative in two dimensions: any algebraically decaying temporal velocity correlation (with a Gaussian spatial correlation) produces a normal diffusive process. General conditions relating the diffusive nature of the process to the temporal exponent of the Lagrangian velocity correlation (in Corrsin approximation) are derived. 
0704.02518	Combinatorics Of RNA Structures With Pseudoknots	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Emma Y. Jin, Jing Qin, Christian M. Reidys	 Abstract: In this paper we derive the generating function of RNA structures with pseudoknots. We enumerate all $k$-noncrossing RNA pseudoknot structures categorized by their maximal sets of mutually intersecting arcs. In addition we enumerate pseudoknot structures over circular RNA. For 3-noncrossing RNA structures and RNA secondary structures we present a novel 4-term recursion formula and a 2-term recursion, respectively. Furthermore we enumerate for arbitrary $k$ all $k$-noncrossing, restricted RNA structures i.e. $k$-noncrossing RNA structures without 2-arcs i.e. arcs of the form $(i,i+2)$, for $1\le i\le n-2$. 
0704.02519	Comparative study of depth-dose distributions for beams of light and  heavy nuclei in tissue-like media	Medical Physics (physics.med-ph)	Authors:Igor Pshenichnov (Frankfurt U., FIAS and INR, Moscow), Igor Mishustin (Frankfurt U., FIAS and Kurchatov Inst., Moscow), Walter Greiner (Frankfurt U., FIAS)	 Abstract: We study the energy deposition by light and heavy nuclei in tissue-like media as used for cancer therapy. The depth-dose distributions for protons, $^{3}$He, $^{12}$C, $^{20}$Ne, and $^{58}$Ni nuclei are calculated within a Monte Carlo model based on the GEANT4 toolkit. These distributions are compared with each other and with available experimental data. It is demonstrated that nuclear fragmentation reactions essentially reduce the peak-to-plateau ratio of the dose profiles for deeply penetrating energetic ions heavier than $^{3}$He. On the other hand, all projectiles up to $^{20}$Ne were found equally suitable for therapeutic use at low penetration depths. 
0704.02520	Dark energy from modified F(R)-scalar-Gauss-Bonnet gravity	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Shin'ichi Nojiri, Sergei D. Odintsov, Petr V. Tretyakov	 Abstract: The modified F(R)-scalar-Gauss-Bonnet gravity is proposed as dark energy model. The reconstruction program for such theory is developed. It is explicitly demonstrated that the known classical universe expansion history (deceleration epoch, transition to acceleration and effective quintessence, phantom or cosmological constant era) may naturally occur in such unified theory for some (reconstructed) classes of scalar potentials. Gauss-Bonnet assisted dark energy is also proposed. The possibility of cosmic acceleration is studied there. 
0704.02521	Substitution tilings with statistical circular symmetry	Metric Geometry (math.MG)	Authors:Dirk Frettlöh	 Abstract: Two new series of substitution tilings are introduced in which the tiles appear in infinitely many orientations. It is shown that several properties of the well-known pinwheel tiling do also hold for these new examples, and, in fact, for all substitution tilings showing tiles in infinitely many orientations. 
0704.02522	A Three Parameter Hopf Deformation of the Algebra of Feynman-like  Diagrams	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Gérard Henry Edmond Duchamp (LIPN), Pawel Blasiak, Andrzej Horzela, Karol A. Penson (LPTMC), Allan I. Solomon	 Abstract: We construct a three-parameter deformation of the Hopf algebra $\LDIAG$. This is the algebra that appears in an expansion in terms of Feynman-like diagrams of the {\em product formula} in a simplified version of Quantum Field Theory. This new algebra is a true Hopf deformation which reduces to $\LDIAG$ for some parameter values and to the algebra of Matrix Quasi-Symmetric Functions ($\MQS$) for others, and thus relates $\LDIAG$ to other Hopf algebras of contemporary physics. Moreover, there is an onto linear mapping preserving products from our algebra to the algebra of Euler-Zagier sums. 
0704.02523	High Mobility in LaAlO3/SrTiO3 Heterostructures: Origin, Dimensionality  and Perspectives	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:G. Herranz, M. Basletic, M. Bibes, C. Carretero, E. Tafra, E. Jacquet, K. Bouzehouane, C. Deranlot, A. Hamzic, J.-M. Broto, A. Barthelemy, A. Fert	 Abstract: We have investigated the dimensionality and origin of the magnetotransport properties of LaAlO3 films epitaxially grown on TiO2-terminated SrTiO3(001) substrates. High mobility conduction is observed at low deposition oxygen pressures (PO2 < 10^-5 mbar) and has a three-dimensional character. However, at higher PO2 the conduction is dramatically suppressed and nonmetallic behavior appears. Experimental data strongly support an interpretation of these properties based on the creation of oxygen vacancies in the SrTiO3 substrates during the growth of the LaAlO3 layer. When grown on SrTiO3 substrates at low PO2, other oxides generate the same high mobility as LaAlO3 films. This opens interesting prospects for all-oxide electronics. 
0704.02524	Quelques plats pour la métrique de Hofer	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Pierre Py (UMPA-Ensl)	 Abstract: We show, by an elementary and explicit construction, that the group of Hamiltonian diffeomorphisms of certain symplectic manifolds, endowed with Hofer's metric, contains subgroups quasi-isometric to Euclidean spaces of arbitrary dimension. 
0704.02525	A case of mistaken identity? GRB 060912A and the nature of the long --  short GRB divide	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A.J. Levan, P. Jakobsson, C. Hurkett, N.R. Tanvir, J. Gorosabel, P. Vreeswijk, E. Rol, R. Chapman, N. Gehrels, P.T. O'Brien, J.P. Osborne, R.S. Priddey, C. Kouveliotou, R. Starling, D. Vanden Berk, K. Wiersema	 Abstract: We investigate the origin of the GRB 060912A, which has observational properties that make its classification as either a long or short burst ambiguous. Short duration GRBs (SGRBs) are thought to have typically lower energies than long duration bursts, can be found in galaxies with populations of all ages and are likely to originate from different progenitors to the long duration bursts. However, it has become clear that duration alone is insufficient to make a distinction between the two populations in many cases, leading to a desire to find additional discriminators of burst type. GRB 060912A had a duration of 6 s and occurred only ~10 arcsec from a bright, low redshift ($z=0.0936$) elliptical galaxy, suggesting that this may have been the host, which would favour it being a short-burst. However, our deep optical imaging and spectroscopy of the location of GRB 060912A using the VLT shows that GRB 060912A more likely originates in a distant star forming galaxy at z=0.937, and is most likely a long burst. This demonstrates the risk in identifying bright, nearby galaxies as the hosts of given GRBs without further supporting evidence. Further, it implies that, in the absence of secure identifications, "host" type, or more broadly discriminators which rely on galaxy redshifts, may not be good indicators of the true nature of any given GRB. 
0704.02526	Nonperturbative screening of the Landau pole	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Francesco Giacosa, Ralf Hofmann	 Abstract: Based on the trace anomaly for the energy-momentum tensor, an effective theory for the thermodynamics of the deconfining phase, and by assuming the asymptotic behavior to be determined by one-loop perturbation theory we compute the nonperturbative beta function for the fundamental coupling $g$ in SU(2) and SU(3) Yang-Mills theory. With increasing temperature we observe a very rapid approach to the perturbative running. The Landau pole is nonperturbatively screened. 
0704.02527	Self-Similar Solutions of the Non-Strictly Hyperbolic Whitham Equations  for the KdV Hierarchy	Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)	Authors:V. U. Pierce, Fei-Ran Tian	 Abstract: We study the Whitham equations for all the higher order KdV equations. The Whitham equations are neither strictly hyperbolic nor genuinely nonlinear. We are interested in the solution of the Whitham equations when the initial values are given by a step function. 
0704.02528	Self-dual tilings with respect to star-duality	Metric Geometry (math.MG)	Authors:Dirk Frettlöh	 Abstract: The concept of star-duality is described for self-similar cut-and-project tilings in arbitrary dimensions. This generalises Thurston's concept of a Galois-dual tiling. The dual tilings of the Penrose tilings as well as the Ammann-Beenker tilings are calculated. Conditions for a tiling to be self-dual are obtained. 
0704.02529	An experimental test of non-local realism	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Simon Groeblacher, Tomasz Paterek, Rainer Kaltenbaek, Caslav Brukner, Marek Zukowski, Markus Aspelmeyer, Anton Zeilinger	 Abstract: Most working scientists hold fast to the concept of 'realism' - a viewpoint according to which an external reality exists independent of observation. But quantum physics has shattered some of our cornerstone beliefs. According to Bell's theorem, any theory that is based on the joint assumption of realism and locality (meaning that local events cannot be affected by actions in space-like separated regions) is at variance with certain quantum predictions. Experiments with entangled pairs of particles have amply confirmed these quantum predictions, thus rendering local realistic theories untenable. Maintaining realism as a fundamental concept would therefore necessitate the introduction of 'spooky' actions that defy locality. Here we show by both theory and experiment that a broad and rather reasonable class of such non-local realistic theories is incompatible with experimentally observable quantum correlations. In the experiment, we measure previously untested correlations between two entangled photons, and show that these correlations violate an inequality proposed by Leggett for non-local realistic theories. Our result suggests that giving up the concept of locality is not sufficient to be consistent with quantum experiments, unless certain intuitive features of realism are abandoned. 
0704.02530	Integration on moduli spaces of stable curves through localization	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Brad Safnuk	 Abstract: We introduce a new method of calculating intersections on \bar{M}_{g,n}, using localization of equivariant cohomology. As an application, we give a proof of Mirzakhani's recursion relation for calculating intersections of mixed psi and kappa_1 classes. 
0704.02531	Dynamic condensation of water at crack tips in fused silica glass	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:M. Ciccotti, M. George, V. Ranieri, L. Wondraczek, C. Marliere	 Abstract: Water molecules play a fundamental role in the physics of slow crack propagation in glasses. It is commonly understood that, during stress-corrosion, water molecules that move in the crack cavity effectively reduce the bond strength at the strained crack tip and, thus, support crack propagation. Yet the details of the environmental condition at the crack tip in moist air are not well determined. In a previous work, we reported direct evidence of the presence of a 100 nm long liquid condensate at the crack tip in fused silica glass during very slow crack propagation (10^-9 to 10^-10 m/s). These observations are based on in-situ AFM phase imaging techniques applied on DCDC glass specimens in controlled atmosphere. Here, we discuss the physical origin of the AFM phase contrast between the liquid condensate and the glass surface in relation to tip-sample adhesion induced by capillary bridges. We then report new experimental data on the water condensation length increase with relative humidity in the atmosphere. The measured condensation lengths were much larger than what predicted using the Kelvin equation and expected geometry of the crack tip. 
0704.02532	3D Radiative Hydrodynamics for Disk Stability Simulations: A Proposed  Testing Standard and New Results	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Aaron C. Boley, Richard H. Durisen, Aake Nordlund, Jesse Lord	 Abstract: Recent three-dimensional radiative hydrodynamics simulations of protoplanetary disks report disparate disk behaviors, and these differences involve the importance of convection to disk cooling, the dependence of disk cooling on metallicity, and the stability of disks against fragmentation and clump formation. To guarantee trustworthy results, a radiative physics algorithm must demonstrate the capability to handle both the high and low optical depth regimes. We develop a test suite that can be used to demonstrate an algorithm's ability to relax to known analytic flux and temperature distributions, to follow a contracting slab, and to inhibit or permit convection appropriately. We then show that the radiative algorithm employed by Meji\'a (2004) and Boley et al. (2006) and the algorithm employed by Cai et al. (2006) and Cai et al. (2007, in prep.) pass these tests with reasonable accuracy. In addition, we discuss a new algorithm that couples flux-limited diffusion with vertical rays, we apply the test suite, and we discuss the results of evolving the Boley et al. (2006) disk with this new routine. Although the outcome is significantly different in detail with the new algorithm, we obtain the same qualitative answers. Our disk does not cool fast due to convection, and it is stable to fragmentation. We find an effective $\alpha\approx 10^{-2}$. In addition, transport is dominated by low-order modes. 
0704.02533	Multi-Agent Approach to the Self-Organization of Networks	Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO)	Authors:Frank Schweitzer	 Abstract: Is it possible to link a set of nodes without using preexisting positional information or any kind of long-range attraction of the nodes? Can the process of generating positional information, i.e. the detection of ``unknown'' nodes and the estabishment of chemical gradients, \emph{and} the process of network formation, i.e. the establishment of links between nodes, occur in parallel, on a comparable time scale, as a process of co-evolution? The paper discusses a model where the generation of relevant information for establishing the links between nodes results from the interaction of many \emph{agents}, i.e. subunits of the system that are capable of performing some activities. Their collective interaction is based on (indirect) communication, which also includes memory effects and the dissemination of information in the system. The relevant (``pragmatic'') information that leads to the establishment of the links then emerges from an evolutionary interplay of selection and reamplification. 
0704.02534	Periodic solutions for the Schroedinger equation with nonlocal smoothing  nonlinearities in higher dimension	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Guido Gentile, Michela Procesi	 Abstract: We consider the nonlinear Schroedinger equation in higher dimension with Dirichlet boundary conditions and with a non-local smoothing nonlinearity. We prove the existence of small amplitude periodic solutions. In the fully resonant case we find solutions which at leading order are wave packets, in the sense that they continue linear solutions with an arbitrarily large number of resonant modes. The main difficulty in the proof consists in solving a "small divisor problem" which we do by using a renormalisation group approach. 
0704.02535	Sunyaev-Zel'dovich profiles and scaling relations: modelling effects and  observational biases	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Bonaldi, G. Tormen, K. Dolag, L. Moscardini	 Abstract: We use high-resolution hydrodynamic re-simulations to investigate the properties of the thermal Sunyaev-Zel'dovich (SZ) effect from galaxy clusters. We compare results obtained using different physical models for the intracluster medium (ICM), and show how they modify the SZ emission in terms of cluster profiles and scaling relations. We also produce realistic mock observations to verify whether the results from hydrodynamic simulations can be confirmed. We find that SZ profiles depend marginally on the modelled physical processes, while they exhibit a strong dependence on cluster mass. The central and total SZ emission strongly correlate with the cluster X-ray luminosity and temperature. The logarithmic slopes of these scaling relations differ from the self-similar predictions by less than 0.2; the normalization of the relations is lower for simulations including radiative cooling. The observational test suggests that SZ cluster profiles are unlikely to be able to probe the ICM physics. The total SZ decrement appears to be an observable much more robust than the central intensity, and we suggest using the former to investigate scaling relations. 
0704.02536	Introduction to Phase Transitions in Random Optimization Problems	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Remi Monasson (LPTENS)	 Abstract: Notes of the lectures delivered in Les Houches during the Summer School on Complex Systems (July 2006). 
0704.02537	Calculation of pseudoscalar and vector mesons' masses in extended model  of quasi-independent quarks	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:V. V. Khruschov (RRC Ki, Moscow)	 Abstract: Masses of pseudoscalar and vector mesons, which are ground states of light or/and heavy quarks and antiquarks, have been calculated in the framework of an extended model of quasi-independent quarks with absolute uncertainties about 30 MeV. It is shown that the assumption on equidistant discrete levels for a mean field energy does not contradict to existing data and permits to reduce a number of model parameters. It is obtained, that a difference between neighbouring mean field energy levels is flavour independent. Values of spin-spin interaction between quarks and antiquarks with different flavours in pseudoscalar and vector mesons are presented. 
0704.02538	Note on charge interaction in NQED	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:K. Bolonek, P. Kosinski	 Abstract: The interaction of charges in NQED is discussed. It is shown that the relativistic correction have the same form as in the commutative case provided the Weyl ordering rule is used. 
0704.02539	Reconstructing a Random Potential from its Random Walks	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Simona Cocco (LPS), Remi Monasson (LPTENS)	 Abstract: The problem of how many trajectories of a random walker in a potential are needed to reconstruct the values of this potential is studied. We show that this problem can be solved by calculating the probability of survival of an abstract random walker in a partially absorbing potential. The approach is illustrated on the discrete Sinai (random force) model with a drift. We determine the parameter (temperature, duration of each trajectory, ...) values making reconstruction as fast as possible. 
0704.02540	Quantum Measurements and Gates by Code Deformation	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:H. Bombin, M.A. Martin-Delgado	 Abstract: The usual scenario in fault tolerant quantum computation involves certain amount of qubits encoded in each code block, transversal operations between them and destructive measurements of ancillary code blocks. We introduce a new approach in which a single code layer is used for the entire computation, in particular a surface code. Qubits can be created, manipulated and non-destructively measured by code deformations that amount to `cut and paste' operations in the surface. All the interactions between qubits remain purely local in a two-dimensional setting. 
0704.02541	Gamma-ray probe of the QSO's obscured evolution	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Iyudin (SINP, Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia), J. Greiner (MPE, Garching, Germany), G. Di Cocco (IASF/IANF-Bologna, Italy), S. Larsson (Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden)	 Abstract: The idea that substantial absorption in AGN could be a definite characteristic of the early phases of QSO evolution was invoked to explain the submillimeter observations of X-ray absorbed AGN at z~1 to z~3, that have shown strong emission at 850 mkm. This strong emission is a signature of the copious star formation. In AGN evolution model, the main obscured growth phase of the QSO coincides with formation of the host galaxy spheroid, the completion of which indicates the beginning of the luminous, unobscured phase of the QSO's evolution. The verification of this model at redshifts up to z~6 appears possible via application of the gamma-ray resonant absorption method. 
0704.02542	Narratives within immersive technologies	Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)	Authors:Joan Llobera	 Abstract: The main goal of this project is to research technical advances in order to enhance the possibility to develop narratives within immersive mediated environments. An important part of the research is concerned with the question of how a script can be written, annotated and realized for an immersive context. A first description of the main theoretical framework and the ongoing work and a first script example is provided. This project is part of the program for presence research, and it will exploit physiological feedback and Computational Intelligence within virtual reality. 
0704.02543	Antiproton and Positron Signal Enhancement in Dark Matter Mini-Spikes  Scenarios	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. Brun, G. Bertone, J. Lavalle, P. Salati, R. Taillet	 Abstract: The annihilation of dark matter (DM) in the Galaxy could produce specific imprints on the spectra of antimatter species in Galactic cosmic rays, which could be detected by upcoming experiments such as PAMELA and AMS02. Recent studies show that the presence of substructures can enhance the annihilation signal by a "boost factor" that not only depends on energy, but that is intrinsically a statistical property of the distribution of DM substructures inside the Milky Way. We investigate a scenario in which substructures consist of $\sim 100$ "mini-spikes" around intermediate-mass black holes. Focusing on primary positrons and antiprotons, we find large boost factors, up to a few thousand, that exhibit a large variance at high energy in the case of positrons and at low energy in the case of antiprotons. As a consequence, an estimate of the DM particle mass based on the observed cut-off in the positron spectrum could lead to a substantial underestimate of its actual value. 
0704.02544	Existence Proofs of Some EXIT Like Functions	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Vishwambhar Rathi, Ruediger Urbanke	 Abstract: The Extended BP (EBP) Generalized EXIT (GEXIT) function introduced in \cite{MMRU05} plays a fundamental role in the asymptotic analysis of sparse graph codes. For transmission over the binary erasure channel (BEC) the analytic properties of the EBP GEXIT function are relatively simple and well understood. The general case is much harder and even the existence of the curve is not known in general. We introduce some tools from non-linear analysis which can be useful to prove the existence of EXIT like curves in some cases. The main tool is the Krasnoselskii-Rabinowitz (KR) bifurcation theorem. 
0704.02545	The angular correlations of galaxies in the COSMOS field	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:H. J. McCracken, J. A. Peacock, L. Guzzo, P. Capak, C. Porciani, N. Scoville, H. Aussel, A. Finoguenov, J. B. James, M. G. Kitzbichler, A. Koekemoer, A. Leauthaud, O. Le Fèvre, R. Massey, Y. Mellier, B. Mobasher, P. Norberg, J. Rhodes, D. B. Sanders, S. S. Sasaki, Y. Taniguchi, D. J. Thompson, S. D. M. White, A. El-Zant	 Abstract: We present measurements of the two-point galaxy angular correlation function w(\theta) in the COSMOS field. Independent determinations of w(\theta) as a function of magnitude limit are presented for both the HST ACS catalog and also for the ground-based data from Subaru and the CFHT. Despite having significantly different masks, these three determinations agree well. At bright magnitudes (IAB<22), our data generally match very well with existing measurements and with mock catalogs based on semi-analytic galaxy formation calculations of Kitzbichler and White from the Millennium Simulation. The exception is that our result is at the upper end of the expected cosmic variance scatter for \theta > 10 arcmin, which we attribute to a particularly rich structure known to exist at z~0.8. For fainter samples, however, the level of clustering is somewhat higher than reported by some previous studies: in all three catalogues we find w(\theta=1')~0.014 at a median IAB magnitude of 24. At these very faintest magnitudes, our measurements agree well with the latest determinations from the Canada-France Legacy Survey. This level of clustering is approximately double what is predicted by the semi-analytic catalogs (at all angles). The semi-analytic results allow an estimate of cosmic variance, which is too small to account for the discrepancy. We therefore conclude that the mean amplitude of clustering at this level is higher than previously estimated. 
0704.02546	Q^2 Dependence of the S_{11}(1535) Photocoupling and Evidence for a  P-wave resonance in eta electroproduction	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:H. Denizli, J. Mueller, S. Dytman et al. (CLAS Collaboration)	 Abstract: New cross sections for the reaction $ep \to e'\eta p$ are reported for total center of mass energy $W$=1.5--2.3 GeV and invariant squared momentum transfer $Q^2$=0.13--3.3 GeV$^2$. This large kinematic range allows extraction of new information about response functions, photocouplings, and $\eta N$ coupling strengths of baryon resonances. A sharp structure is seen at $W\sim$ 1.7 GeV. The shape of the differential cross section is indicative of the presence of a $P$-wave resonance that persists to high $Q^2$. Improved values are derived for the photon coupling amplitude for the $S_{11}$(1535) resonance. The new data greatly expands the $Q^2$ range covered and an interpretation of all data with a consistent parameterization is provided. 
0704.02547	Inferring DNA sequences from mechanical unzipping data: the  large-bandwidth case	Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)	Authors:Valentina Baldazzi (LPS), Serena Bradde (LPS), Simona Cocco (LPS), Enzo Marinari, Remi Monasson (LPTENS)	 Abstract: The complementary strands of DNA molecules can be separated when stretched apart by a force; the unzipping signal is correlated to the base content of the sequence but is affected by thermal and instrumental noise. We consider here the ideal case where opening events are known to a very good time resolution (very large bandwidth), and study how the sequence can be reconstructed from the unzipping data. Our approach relies on the use of statistical Bayesian inference and of Viterbi decoding algorithm. Performances are studied numerically on Monte Carlo generated data, and analytically. We show how multiple unzippings of the same molecule may be exploited to improve the quality of the prediction, and calculate analytically the number of required unzippings as a function of the bandwidth, the sequence content, the elasticity parameters of the unzipped strands. 
0704.02548	Triggering at High Luminosity Colliders	Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)	Authors:Hans Peter Beck	 Abstract: This article discusses the techniques used to select online promising events at high energy and high luminosity colliders. After a brief introduction, explaining some general aspects of triggering, the more specific implementation options for well established machines like the Tevatron and Large Hadron Collider are presented. An outlook on what difficulties need to be met is given when designing trigger systems at the Super Large Hadron Collider, or at the International Linear Collider 
0704.02549	Swift observations of the 2006 outburst of the recurrent nova RS  Ophiuchi: II. 1D hydrodynamical models of wind driven shocks	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:N. M. H. Vaytet, T. J. O'Brien, M. F. Bode	 Abstract: Following the early Swift X-ray observations of the latest outburst of the recurrent nova RS Ophiuchi in February 2006 (Paper I), we present new 1D hydrodynamical models of the system which take into account all three phases of the remnant evolution. The models suggest a novel way of modelling the system by treating the outburst as a sudden increase then decrease in wind mass-loss rate and velocity. The differences between this wind model and previous Primakoff-type simulations are described. A more complex structure, even in 1D, is revealed through the presence of both forward and reverse shocks, with a separating contact discontinuity. The effects of radiative cooling are investigated and key outburst parameters such as mass-loss rate, ejecta velocity and mass are varied. The shock velocities as a function of time are compared to the ones derived in Paper I. We show how the manner in which the matter is ejected controls the evolution of the shock and that for a well-cooled remnant, the shock deceleration rate depends on the amount of energy that is radiated away. 
0704.02550	Local Energy Velocity of Classical Fields	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:I.V. Drozdov, A.A. Stahlhofen	 Abstract: It is proposed to apply a recently developed concept of local wave velocities to the dynamical field characteristics, especially for the canonical field energy density. It is shown that local energy velocities can be derived from the lagrangian directly. The local velocities of zero- and first- order for energy propagation has been obtained for special cases of scalar and vector fields. Some important special cases of these results are discussed. 
0704.02551	Inferring dynamic genetic networks with low order independencies	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Sophie Lèbre (SG)	 Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel inference method for dynamic genetic networks which makes it possible to face with a number of time measurements n much smaller than the number of genes p. The approach is based on the concept of low order conditional dependence graph that we extend here in the case of Dynamic Bayesian Networks. Most of our results are based on the theory of graphical models associated with the Directed Acyclic Graphs (DAGs). In this way, we define a minimal DAG G which describes exactly the full order conditional dependencies given the past of the process. Then, to face with the large p and small n estimation case, we propose to approximate DAG G by considering low order conditional independencies. We introduce partial qth order conditional dependence DAGs G(q) and analyze their probabilistic properties. In general, DAGs G(q) differ from DAG G but still reflect relevant dependence facts for sparse networks such as genetic networks. By using this approximation, we set out a non-bayesian inference method and demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach on both simulated and real data analysis. The inference procedure is implemented in the R package 'G1DBN' freely available from the CRAN archive. 
0704.02552	Enhanced microwave transmission through quasicrystal hole arrays	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:N. Papasimakis, V. A. Fedotov, F. J. Garcia de Abajo, A. S. Schwanecke, N. I. Zheludev	 Abstract: We report on the observation of enhanced microwave transmission through quasi-periodic hole arrays in metal films. The fraction of transmitted light reaches 50% in a self-standing metal film and approaches 90% when the film is sandwiched between thin dielectric slabs, while the holes occupy only 10% of the sample area. The maximum transmission is accompanied by zero phase change, rendering the film almost 'invisible' over a wide frequency range. The extraordinary transmission phenomenon is interpreted in terms of resonances in the self-consistent interaction between holes, which are represented by effective electric and magnetic dipoles. 
0704.02553	Metastable String Vacua	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:C. Angelantonj, E. Dudas	 Abstract: We argue that tachyon-free type I string vacua with supersymmetry breaking in the open sector at the string scale can be interpreted, via S and T-duality arguments, as metastable vacua of supersymmetric type I superstring. The dynamics of the process can be partially captured via nucleation of brane-antibrane pairs out of the non-supersymmetric vacuum and subsequent tachyon condensation. 
0704.02554	A tree without leaves	Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)	Authors:Brigitte Meyer-Berthaud (AMAP), Anne-Laure Decombeix (AMAP)	 Abstract: The puzzle presented by the famous stumps of Gilboa, New York, finds a solution in the discovery of two fossil specimens that allow the entire structure of these early trees to be reconstructed. 
0704.02555	Characteristic forms of complex Cartan geometries	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Benjamin McKay (University College Cork)	 Abstract: We calculate relations on characteristic classes which are obstructions preventing closed K\"ahler manifolds from carrying holomorphic Cartan geometries. We apply these relations to give global constraints on the phase spaces of complex analytic determined and underdetermined systems of differential equations. 
0704.02556	Families of varieties of general type over compact bases	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Stefan Kebekus, Sandor Kovacs	 Abstract: Let f: X -> Y be a smooth family of canonically polarized complex varieties over a smooth base. Generalizing the classical Shafarevich hyperbolicity conjecture, Viehweg conjectured that Y is necessarily of log general type if the family has maximal variation. A somewhat stronger and more precise version of Viehweg's conjecture was shown by the authors in arXiv:math/0511378 in the case where Y is a quasi-projective surface. Assuming that the minimal model program holds, this very short paper proves the same result for projective base manifolds Y of arbitrary dimension. 
0704.02557	ULTRACAM: an ultra-fast, triple-beam CCD camera for high-speed  astrophysics	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:V. S. Dhillon, T. R. Marsh, M. J. Stevenson, D. C. Atkinson, P. Kerry, P. T. Peacocke, A. J. A. Vick, S. M. Beard, D. J. Ives, D. W. Lunney, S. A. McLay, C. J. Tierney, J. Kelly, S. P. Littlefair, R. Nicholson, R. Pashley, E. T. Harlaftis, K. O'Brien	 Abstract: ULTRACAM is a portable, high-speed imaging photometer designed to study faint astronomical objects at high temporal resolutions. ULTRACAM employs two dichroic beamsplitters and three frame-transfer CCD cameras to provide three-colour optical imaging at frame rates of up to 500 Hz. The instrument has been mounted on both the 4.2-m William Herschel Telescope on La Palma and the 8.2-m Very Large Telescope in Chile, and has been used to study white dwarfs, brown dwarfs, pulsars, black-hole/neutron-star X-ray binaries, gamma-ray bursts, cataclysmic variables, eclipsing binary stars, extrasolar planets, flare stars, ultra-compact binaries, active galactic nuclei, asteroseismology and occultations by Solar System objects (Titan, Pluto and Kuiper Belt objects). In this paper we describe the scientific motivation behind ULTRACAM, present an outline of its design and report on its measured performance. 
0704.02558	MeV Dark Matter and Small Scale Structure	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Dan Hooper, Manoj Kaplinghat, Louis E. Strigari, Kathryn M. Zurek	 Abstract: WIMPs with electroweak scale masses (neutralinos, etc.) remain in kinetic equilibrium with other particle species until temperatures approximately in the range of 10 MeV to 1 GeV, leading to the formation of dark matter substructure with masses as small as $10^{-4} M_{\odot}$ to $10^{-12} M_{\odot}$. However, if dark matter consists of particles with MeV scale masses, as motivated by the observation of 511 keV emission from the Galactic Bulge, such particles are naturally expected to remain in kinetic equilibrium with the cosmic neutrino background until considerably later times. This would lead to a strong suppression of small scale structure with masses below about $10^7 M_{\odot}$ to $10^4 M_{\odot}$. This cutoff scale has important implications for present and future searches for faint Local Group satellite galaxies and for the missing satellites problem. 
0704.02559	Is there a relativistic nonlinear generalization of quantum mechanics?	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Hans-Thomas Elze	 Abstract: Yes, there is. - A new kind of gauge theory is introduced, where the minimal coupling and corresponding covariant derivatives are defined in the space of functions pertaining to the functional Schroedinger picture of a given field theory. While, for simplicity, we study the example of an U(1) symmetry, this kind of gauge theory can accommodate other symmetries as well. We consider the resulting relativistic nonlinear extension of quantum mechanics and show that it incorporates gravity in the (0+1)-dimensional limit, where it leads to the Schroedinger-Newton equations. Gravity is encoded here into a universal nonlinear extension of quantum theory. The probabilistic interpretation, i.e. Born's rule, holds provided the underlying model has only dimensionless parameters. 
0704.02560	Vacant Set of Random Interlacements and Percolation	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Alain-Sol Sznitman	 Abstract: We introduce a model of random interlacements made of a countable collection of doubly infinite paths on Z^d, d bigger or equal to 3. A non-negative parameter u measures how many trajectories enter the picture. This model describes in the large N limit the microscopic structure in the bulk, which arises when considering the disconnection time of a discrete cylinder with base a d-1-dimensional discrete torus of side-length N, or the set of points visited by simple random walk on the d-dimensional discrete torus of side-length N by times of order uN^d. We study the percolative properties of the vacant set left by the interlacement at level u, which is an infinite, connected, translation invariant random subset of Z^d. We introduce a critical value such that the vacant set percolates for u below the critical value, and does not percolate for u above the critical value. Our main results show that the critical value is finite when d is bigger or equal to 3, and strictly positive when d is bigger or equal to 7. 
0704.02561	Dual Feynman transform for modular operads	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Joseph Chuang, Andrey Lazarev	 Abstract: We introduce and study the notion of a dual Feynman transform of a modular operad. This generalizes and gives a conceptual explanation of Kontsevich's dual construction producing graph cohomology classes from a contractible differential graded Frobenius algebra. The dual Feynman transform of a modular operad is indeed linear dual to the Feynman transform introduced by Getzler and Kapranov when evaluated on vacuum graphs. In marked contrast to the Feynman transform, the dual notion admits an extremely simple presentation via generators and relations; this leads to an explicit and easy description of its algebras. We discuss a further generalization of the dual Feynman transform whose algebras are not necessarily contractible. This naturally gives rise to a two-colored graph complex analogous to the Boardman-Vogt topological tree complex. 
0704.02562	Boundary triplets and M-functions for non-selfadjoint operators, with  applications to elliptic PDEs and block operator matrices	Spectral Theory (math.SP)	Authors:Malcolm Brown, Marco Marletta, Serguei Naboko, Ian Wood	 Abstract: Starting with an adjoint pair of operators, under suitable abstract versions of standard PDE hypotheses, we consider the Weyl M-function of extensions of the operators. The extensions are determined by abstract boundary conditions and we establish results on the relationship between the M-function as an analytic function of a spectral parameter and the spectrum of the extension. We also give an example where the M-function does not contain the whole spectral information of the resolvent, and show that the results can be applied to elliptic PDEs where the M-function corresponds to the Dirichlet to Neumann map. 
0704.02563	Beyond the semi-classical description of black hole evaporation	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Renaud Parentani	 Abstract: In the semi-classical treatment, i.e. in a classical black hole geometry, Hawking quanta emerge from trans-Planckian configurations because of scale invariance. There is indeed no scale to stop the blue-shifting effect encountered in the backward propagation towards the event horizon. On the contrary, when taking into account the gravitational interactions neglected in the semi-classical treatment, a UV scale stopping the blue-shift could be dynamically engendered. To show that this is the case, we use a non-perturbative treatment based on the large-N limit, where $N$ is the number of matter fields. In this limit, the semi-classical treatment is the leading contribution. Non-linear gravitational effects appear in the next orders and in the first of these, the effects are governed by the two-point correlation function of the energy-momentum tensor evaluated in the vacuum. Taking this correlator into account, backward propagated modes are dissipated at a distance from the horizon $\propto G\kappa$ when measured in a freely falling frame. ($G$ is Newton's constant and $\kappa$ the surface gravity.) This result can be also obtained by considering light propagation in a stochastic ensemble of metrics whose fluctuations are determined by the above correlator. 
0704.02564	Diffusion Processes on Small-World Networks with Distance-Dependent  Random-Links	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Balazs Kozma, Matthew B. Hastings, G. Korniss	 Abstract: We considered diffusion-driven processes on small-world networks with distance-dependent random links. The study of diffusion on such networks is motivated by transport on randomly folded polymer chains, synchronization problems in task-completion networks, and gradient driven transport on networks. Changing the parameters of the distance-dependence, we found a rich phase diagram, with different transient and recurrent phases in the context of random walks on networks. We performed the calculations in two limiting cases: in the annealed case, where the rearrangement of the random links is fast, and in the quenched case, where the link rearrangement is slow compared to the motion of the random walker or the surface. It has been well-established that in a large class of interacting systems, adding an arbitrarily small density of, possibly long-range, quenched random links to a regular lattice interaction topology, will give rise to mean-field (or annealed) like behavior. In some cases, however, mean-field scaling breaks down, such as in diffusion or in the Edwards-Wilkinson process in "low-dimensional" small-world networks. This break-down can be understood by treating the random links perturbatively, where the mean-field (or annealed) prediction appears as the lowest-order term of a naive perturbation expansion. The asymptotic analytic results are also confirmed numerically by employing exact numerical diagonalization of the network Laplacian. Further, we construct a finite-size scaling framework for the relevant observables, capturing the cross-over behaviors in finite networks. This work provides a detailed account of the self-consistent-perturbative and renormalization approaches briefly introduced in two earlier short reports. 
0704.02565	Magnetic induction in a turbulent flow of liquid sodium: mean behaviour  and slow fluctuations	Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)	Authors:F. Ravelet, R. Volk, A. Chiffaudel, F. Daviaud, B. Dubrulle, R. Monchaux, M. Bourgoin, P. Odier, J.-F. Pinton, M. Berhanu, S. Fauve, N. Mordant, F. Petrelis	 Abstract: We study the flow response to an externally imposed homogeneous magnetic field in a turbulent swirling flow of liquid sodium -- the VKS2 experiment in which magnetic Reynolds numbers Rm up to 50 are reached. Induction effects are larger than in the former VKS1 experiment. At Rm larger than about 25, the local amplitude of induced field components supersedes that of the applied field, and exhibits non-Gaussian fluctuations. Slow dynamical instationarities and low-frequency bimodal dynamics are observed in the induction, presumably tracing back to large scale fluctuations in the hydrodynamic flow. 
0704.02566	On the quark propagator singularity	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:V. Sauli	 Abstract: Using the method of Fukuda and Kugo \cite{FUKKUG} the continuation of Euclidean solution is performed to the timelike axis of fourmomenta. It is shown that assumed presence of the real simple pole in quark propagator is not in agreement with the solution. The simple pole disappears because of the discontinuity in the resulting quark mass function. 
0704.02567	Mechanical Proof of the Second Law of Thermodynamics Based on Volume  Entropy	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Michele Campisi	 Abstract: In a previous work (M. Campisi. Stud. Hist. Phil. M. P. 36 (2005) 275-290) we have addressed the mechanical foundations of equilibrium thermodynamics on the basis of the Generalized Helmholtz Theorem. It was found that the volume entropy provides a good mechanical analogue of thermodynamic entropy because it satisfies the heat theorem and it is an adiabatic invariant. This property explains the ``equal'' sign in Clausius principle ($S_f \geq S_i$) in a purely mechanical way and suggests that the volume entropy might explain the ``larger than'' sign (i.e. the Law of Entropy Increase) if non adiabatic transformations were considered. Based on the principles of microscopic (quantum or classical) mechanics here we prove that, provided the initial equilibrium satisfy the natural condition of decreasing ordering of probabilities, the expectation value of the volume entropy cannot decrease for arbitrary transformations performed by some external sources of work on a insulated system. This can be regarded as a rigorous quantum mechanical proof of the Second Law. We discuss how this result relates to the Minimal Work Principle and improves over previous attempts. The natural evolution of entropy is towards larger values because the natural state of matter is at positive temperature. Actually the Law of Entropy Decrease holds in artificially prepared negative temperature systems. 
0704.02568	Probing non-standard decoherence effects with solar and KamLAND  neutrinos	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:G.L. Fogli, E. Lisi, A. Marrone (Bari U. & INFN, Bari), D. Montanino (Lecce U. & INFN, Lecce), A. Palazzo (Oxford U. & INFN, Bari)	 Abstract: It has been speculated that quantum gravity might induce a "foamy" space-time structure at small scales, randomly perturbing the propagation phases of free-streaming particles (such as kaons, neutrons, or neutrinos). Particle interferometry might then reveal non-standard decoherence effects, in addition to standard ones (due to, e.g., finite source size and detector resolution.) In this work we discuss the phenomenology of such non-standard effects in the propagation of electron neutrinos in the Sun and in the long-baseline reactor experiment KamLAND, which jointly provide us with the best available probes of decoherence at neutrino energies E ~ few MeV. In the solar neutrino case, by means of a perturbative approach, decoherence is shown to modify the standard (adiabatic) propagation in matter through a calculable damping factor. By assuming a power-law dependence of decoherence effects in the energy domain (E^n with n = 0,+/-1,+/-2), theoretical predictions for two-family neutrino mixing are compared with the data and discussed. We find that neither solar nor KamLAND data show evidence in favor of non-standard decoherence effects, whose characteristic parameter gamma_0 can thus be significantly constrained. In the "Lorentz-invariant" case n=-1, we obtain the upper limit gamma_0<0.78 x 10^-26 GeV at 95% C.L. In the specific case n=-2, the constraints can also be interpreted as bounds on possible matter density fluctuations in the Sun, which we improve by a factor of ~ 2 with respect to previous analyses. 
0704.02569	Modelling the clumping-induced polarimetric variability of hot star  winds	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ben Davies, Jorick S. Vink, René D. Oudmaijer	 Abstract: Clumping in the winds of massive stars may significantly reduce empirical mass-loss rates, and which in turn may have a large impact on our understanding of massive star evolution. Here, we investigate wind-clumping through the linear polarization induced by light scattering off the clumps. Through the use of an analytic wind clumping model, we predict the time evolution of the linear polarimetry over a large parameter space. We concentrate on the Luminous Blue Variables, which display the greatest amount of polarimetric variability and for which we recently conducted a spectropolarimetric survey. Our model results indicate that the observed level of polarimetric variability can be reproduced for two regimes of parameter space: one of a small number of massive, optically-thick clumps; and one of a very large number of low-mass clumps. Although a systematic time-resolved monitoring campaign is required to distinguish between the two scenarios, we currently favour the latter, given the short timescale of the observed polarization variability. As the polarization is predicted to scale linearly with mass-loss rate, we anticipate that all hot stars with very large mass-loss rates should display polarimetric variability. This is consistent with recent findings that intrinsic polarization is more common in stars with strong H$\alpha$ emission. 
0704.02570	Inverse Monte-Carlo determination of effective lattice models for SU(3)  Yang-Mills theory at finite temperature	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:Christian Wozar, Tobias Kaestner, Andreas Wipf, Thomas Heinzl	 Abstract: This paper concludes our efforts in describing SU(3)-Yang-Mills theories at different couplings/temperatures in terms of effective Polyakov-loop models. The associated effective couplings are determined through an inverse Monte Carlo procedure based on novel Schwinger-Dyson equations that employ the symmetries of the Haar measure. Due to the first-order nature of the phase transition we encounter a fine-tuning problem in reproducing the correct behavior of the Polyakov-loop from the effective models. The problem remains under control as long as the number of effective couplings is sufficiently small. 
0704.02571	Extraction of Freshwater and Energy from Atmosphere	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Alexander Bolonkin	 Abstract: Author offers and researches a new, cheap method for the extraction of freshwater from the Earth atmosphere. The suggected method is fundamentally dictinct from all existing methods that extract freshwater from air. All other industrial methods extract water from a saline water source (in most cases from seawater). This new method may be used at any point in the Earth except Polar Zones. It does not require long-distance freshwater transportation. If seawater is not utilized for increasing its productivity, this inexpensive new method is very environment-friendly. The author method has two working versions: (1) the first variant the warm (hot) atmospheric air is lifted by the inflatable tube in a high altitude and atmospheric steam is condenced into freswater: (2) in the second version, the warm air is pumped 20-30 meters under the sea-surface. In the first version, wind and solar heating of air are used for causing air flow. In version (2) wind and propeller are used for causing air movment. The first method does not need energy, the second needs a small amount. Moreover, in variant (1) the freshwater has a high pressure (>30 or more atm.) and can be used for production of energy such as electricity and in that way the freshwater cost is lower. For increasing the productivity the seawater is injected into air and solar air heater may be used. The solar air heater produces a huge amount of electricity as a very powerful electricity generation plant. The offered electricity installation in 100 - 200 times cheaper than any common electric plant of equivalent output. Key words: Extraction freshwater, method of getting freshwater, receiving energy from atmosphere, powerful renewal electric plant. 
0704.02572	Homomorphic images of Branch groups, and Serre's property (FA)	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:Thomas Delzant, Rostislav Grigorchuk	 Abstract: It is shown that a finitely generated branch group has Serre's property (FA) if and only if it does not surject onto the infinite cyclic group or the infinite dihedral group. An example of a finitely generated self-similar branch group surjecting onto the infinite cyclic group is constructed. 
0704.02573	Higher-Order Angular Galaxy Correlations in the SDSS: Redshift and Color  Dependence of non-Linear Bias	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ashley J. Ross, Robert J. Brunner, Adam D. Myers	 Abstract: We present estimates of the N-point galaxy, area-averaged, angular correlation functions $\bar{\omega}_{N}$($\theta$) for $N$ = 2,...,7 for galaxies from the fifth data release of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey. Our parent sample is selected from galaxies with $18 \leq r < 21$, and is the largest ever used to study higher-order correlations. We subdivide this parent sample into two volume limited samples using photometric redshifts, and these two samples are further subdivided by magnitude, redshift, and color (producing early- and late-type galaxy samples) to determine the dependence of $\bar{\omega}_{N}$($\theta$) on luminosity, redshift, and galaxy-type. We measure $\bar{\omega}_{N}$($\theta$) using oversampling techniques and use them to calculate the projected, $s_{N}$. Using models derived from theoretical power-spectra and perturbation theory, we measure the bias parameters $b_1$ and $c_2$, finding that the large differences in both bias parameters ($b_1$ and $c_2$) between early- and late-type galaxies are robust against changes in redshift, luminosity, and $\sigma_8$, and that both terms are consistently smaller for late-type galaxies. By directly comparing their higher-order correlation measurements, we find large differences in the clustering of late-type galaxies at redshifts lower than 0.3 and those at redshifts higher than 0.3, both at large scales ($c_2$ is larger by $\sim0.5$ at $z > 0.3$) and small scales (large amplitudes are measured at small scales only for $z > 0.3$, suggesting much more merger driven star formation at $z > 0.3$). Finally, our measurements of $c_2$ suggest both that $\sigma_8 < 0.8$ and $c_2$ is negative. 
0704.02574	Higher order Painleve system of type D^{(1)}_{2n+2} arising from  integrable hierarchy	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Kenta Fuji, Takao Suzuki	 Abstract: A higher order Painleve system of type D^{(1)}_{2n+2} was introduced by Y. Sasano. It is an extension of the sixth Painleve equation for the affine Weyl group symmetry. It is also expressed as a Hamiltonian system of order 2n with a coupled Painleve VI Hamiltonian. In this paper, we discuss a derivation of this system from a Drinfeld-Sokolov hierarchy. 
0704.02575	Strong photon non-linearities and photonic Mott insulators	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Michael J Hartmann, Martin B Plenio	 Abstract: We show, that photon non-linearities in electromagnetically induced transparency can be at least one order of magnitude larger than predicted in all previous approaches. As an application we demonstrate that, in this regime they give rise to very strong photon - photon interactions which are strong enough to make an experimental realization of a photonic Mott insulator state feasible in arrays of coupled ultra high-Q micro-cavities. 
0704.02576	L-stable functors	Algebraic Topology (math.AT)	Authors:Georg Biedermann	 Abstract: We generalize and greatly simplify the approach of Lydakis and Dundas-R\"ondigs-{\O}stv{\ae}r to construct an L-stable model structure for small functors from a closed symmetric monoidal model category V to a V-model category M, where L is a small cofibrant object of V. For the special case V=M=S_* pointed simplicial sets and L=S^1 this is the classical case of linear functors and has been described as the first stage of the Goodwillie tower of a homotopy functor. We show, that our various model structures are compatible with a closed symmetric monoidal product on small functors. We compare them with other L-stabilizations described by Hovey, Jardine and others. This gives a particularly easy construction of the classical and the motivic stable homotopy category with the correct smash product. We establish the monoid axiom under certain conditions. 
0704.02577	Gemini Spectroscopic Survey of Young Star Clusters in  Merging/Interacting Galaxies. II. NGC 3256 Clusters	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Gelys Trancho (1,2), Nate Bastian (3), Bryan W. Miller (4), François Schweizer (5)	 Abstract: We present Gemini optical spectroscopy of 23 young star clusters in NGC3256. We find that the cluster ages range are from few Myr to ~150 Myr. All these clusters are relatively massive (2--40)x 10^{5} \msun$ and appear to be of roughly 1.5 \zo metallicity. The majority of the clusters in our sample follow the same rotation curve as the gas and hence were presumably formed in the molecular-gas disk. However, a western subsample of five clusters has velocities that deviate significantly from the gas rotation curve. These clusters may either belong to the second spiral galaxy of the merger or may have formed in tidal-tail gas falling back into the system. We discuss our observations in light of other known cluster populations in merging galaxies, and suggest that NGC 3256 is similar to Arp 220, and hence may become an Ultra-luminous Infrared Galaxy as the merger progresses and the star-formation rate increases. Some of the clusters which appeared as isolated in our ground-based images are clearly resolved into multiple sub-components in the HST-ACS images. The same effect has been observed in the Antennae galaxies, showing that clusters are often not formed in isolation, but instead tend to form in larger groups or cluster complexes. 
0704.02578	Formal completions of Néron models for algebraic tori	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Oleg Demchenko, Alexander Gurevich, Xavier Xarles	 Abstract: We calculate the formal group law which represents the completion of the N\'eron model of an algebraic torus over the rationals that splits in a tamely ramified abelian extension. As a tools in the proof, we define and give criterions to compute the Weil restriction of a formal group law and the analog of the fixed part of a formal group law with respect to the action of a (finite) group. 
0704.02579	Newtonian limit of scalar-tensor theories and galactic dynamics:  isolated and interacting galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J.L. Cervantes-Cota, M.A. Rodriguez-Meza, R. Gabbasov, J. Klapp	 Abstract: We use the Newtonian limit of a general scalar-tensor theory around a background field to study astrophysical effects. The gravitational theory modifies the standard Newtonian potential by adding a Yukawa term to it, which is quantified by two theoretical parameters: $\lambda$, the lenghtscale of the gravitational interaction and its strength, $\alpha$. Within this formalism we firstly present a numerical study on the formation of bars in isolated galaxies. We have found for positive $\alpha$ that the modified gravity destabilizes the galactic discs and leads to rapid bar formation in isolated galaxies. Values of $\lambda$ in the range $\approx 8$ -- 14 kpc produce strongest bars in isolated models. Then, we extent this work by considering tidal effects due to interacting galaxies. We send two spirals to collide and study the bar properties of the remnant. We characterize the bar kinematical properties in terms of our parameters ($\lambda, \alpha$). 
0704.02580	Period-two cycles in a feed-forward layered neural network model with  symmetric sequence processing	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:F. L. Metz, W. K. Theumann	 Abstract: The effects of dominant sequential interactions are investigated in an exactly solvable feed-forward layered neural network model of binary units and patterns near saturation in which the interaction consists of a Hebbian part and a symmetric sequential term. Phase diagrams of stationary states are obtained and a new phase of cyclic correlated states of period two is found for a weak Hebbian term, independently of the number of condensed patterns $c$. 
0704.02581	Exotic Kondo-hole band resistivity and magnetoresistance of  Ce$_{1-x}$La$_{x}$Os$_4$Sb$_{12}$ alloys	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:C.R. Rotundu, B. Andraka, P. Schlottmann	 Abstract: Electrical resistivity measurements of non-magnetic single-crystalline Ce$_{1-x}$La$_x$Os$_4$Sb$_{12}$ alloys, $x=0.02$ and 0.1, are reported for temperatures down to 20 mK and magnetic fields up to 18 T. At the lowest temperatures, the resistivity of Ce$_{0.98}$La$_{0.02}$Os$_4$Sb$_{12}$ has a Fermi-liquid-like temperature variation $\rho=\rho_0+A T^2$, but with negative $A$ in small fields. The resistivity has an unusually strong magnetic field dependence for a paramagnetic metal. The 20 mK resistivity increases by 75% between H=0 and 4 T and then decreases by 65% between 4 T and 18 T. Similarly, the $A$ coefficient increases with the field from -77 to 29$ \mu\Omega$cmK$^{-2}$ between H=0 and 7 T and then decreases to 18$ \mu\Omega$cmK$^{-2}$ for 18 T. This nontrivial temperature and field variation is attributed to the existence of a very narrow Kondo-hole band in the hybridization gap, which pins the Fermi energy. Due to disorder the Kondo-hole band has localized states close to the band edges. The resistivity for $x=0.1$ has a qualitatively similar behavior to that of $x=0.02$, but with a larger Kondo-hole band. 
0704.02582	Corbino experimental set-up for Cooper pair mass spectroscopy and  determination of mobility in normal phase	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:T.M. Mishonov, M.V. Stoev	 Abstract: We are suggesting an electronic method for Cooper pair mass spectroscopy of thin superconducting films. The method can be applied, for example, for 100 nm thin high-T_c films grown on insulator substrate 10 mm X 10 mm. In Corbino geometry two Ohmic contacts have to be made on the film evaporating Ag or using silver paste: one circle with radius r_a (1) and a ring electrode with internal radius r_b (2). In the in-between space (r_a,r_b) a ring electrode from mylar assures a capacitive connection between the superconducting layer and the metallized surface (3) of the mylar. In such a way we have an field effect transistor (FET) type structure with a circular gate. When at low enough temperatures T << T_c an AC current with frequency omega is applied between the circle source (1) and the ring-shaped drain (2) an AC Bernoulli voltage with double frequency 2f appears between the gate (3) and the source (1). The 2f signal depends on Cooper pair effective mass and its systematic investigation gives a Cooper pair mass spectroscopy. In the normal phase 2f gives logarithmic derivative of the density of states (DOS) with respect of Fermi energy. Applying a gate voltage in the same structure gives the mobility of the normal phase. 
0704.02583	$2\times250$ GeV CLIC $γγ$ Collider Based on its Drive Beam  FEL	Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph)	Authors:Husnu Aksakal	 Abstract: CLIC is a linear $e^+e^-$ ($\gamma\gamma$) collider project which uses a drive beam to accelerate the main beam. The drive beam provides RF power for each corresponding unit of the main linac through energy extracting RF structures. CLIC has a wide range of center-of-mass energy options from 150 GeV to 3 TeV. The present paper contains optimization of Free Electron Laser (FEL) using one bunch of CLIC drive beam in order to provide polarized light amplification using appropriate wiggler and luminosity spectrum of $\gamma\gamma$ collider for $E_{cm}$=0.5 TeV. Then amplified laser can be converted to a polarized high-energy $\gamma$ beam at the Conversion point (CP-prior to electron positron interaction point) in the process of Compton backscattering. At the CP a powerful laser pulse (FEL) focused to main linac electrons (positrons). Here this scheme described and it is show that CLIC drive beam parameters satisfy the requirement of FEL additionally essential undulator parameters has been defined. Achievable $\gamma\gamma$ luminosity is above $10^{34}$. 
0704.02584	Free energy and extension of a semiflexible polymer in cylindrical  confining geometries	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Yingzi Yang, Theodore W. Burkhardt, Gerhard Gompper	 Abstract: We consider a long, semiflexible polymer, with persistence length $P$ and contour length $L$, fluctuating in a narrow cylindrical channel of diameter $D$. In the regime $D\ll P\ll L$ the free energy of confinement $\Delta F$ and the length of the channel $R_\parallel$ occupied by the polymer are given by Odijk's relations $\Delta F/R_\parallel=A_\circ k_BTP^{-1/3}D^{-2/3}$ and $R_\parallel=L[1-\alpha_\circ(D/P)^{2/3}]$, where $A_\circ$ and $\alpha_\circ$ are dimensionless amplitudes. Using a simulation algorithm inspired by PERM (Pruned Enriched Rosenbluth Method), which yields results for very long polymers, we determine $A_\circ$ and $\alpha_\circ$ and the analogous amplitudes for a channel with a rectangular cross section. For a semiflexible polymer confined to the surface of a cylinder, the corresponding amplitudes are derived with an exact analytic approach. The results are relevant for interpreting experiments on biopolymers in microchannels or microfluidic devices. 
0704.02585	The dynamics of the early universe and the initial conditions for  inflation in a model with radiation and a Chaplygin gas	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:G. A. Monerat, G. Oliveira-Neto, E. V. Corrêa Silva, L. G. Ferreira Filho, P. Romildo Jr., J. C. Fabris, R. Fracalossi, F. G. Alvarenga, S. V. B. Gonçalves	 Abstract: The modeling of the early universe is done through the quantization of a Friedmann-Robertson-Walker model with positive curvature. The material content consists of two fluids: radiation and Chaplygin gas. The quantization of these models is made by following the Wheeler and DeWitt's prescriptions. Using the Schutz formalism, the time notion is recovered and the Wheeler-DeWitt equation transforms into a time dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation, which rules the dynamics of the early universe, under the action of an effective potential $V_{ef}$. Using a finite differences method and the Crank-Nicholson scheme, in a code implemented in the program OCTAVE, we solve the corresponding time dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation and obtain the time evolution of a initial wave packet. This wave packet satisfies appropriate boundary conditions. The calculation of the tunneling probabilities shows that the universe may emerge from the Planck era to an inflationary phase. It also shows that, the tunneling probability is a function of the mean energy of the initial wave packet and of two parameters related to the Chaplygin gas. We also show a comparison between these results and those obtained by the WKB approximation. 
0704.02586	Distributions of Roots of Reduced Cubic Equations with Random  Coefficients	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Kerry M. Soileau	 Abstract: If the coefficients of polynomials are selected by some random process, the zeros of the resulting polynomials are in some sense random. In this paper the author rephrases the above in more precise language, and calculates the joint conditional densities of a random vector whose values determine almost surely the zeros of a "random" reduced cubic. 
0704.02587	Uniform convergence in the mapping class group	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Richard P. Kent IV, Christopher J Leininger	 Abstract: We characterize convex cocompact subgroups of the mapping class group of a surface in terms of uniform convergence actions on the zero locus of the limit set. We also construct subgroups that act as uniform convergence groups on their limit sets, but are not convex cocompact. 
0704.02588	Collider signals in unparticle physics	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Kingman Cheung, Wai-Yee Keung, Tzu-Chiang Yuan	 Abstract: Phenomenology of the notion of an unparticle U, recently perceived by Georgi, to describe a scale invariant sector with a non-trivial infrared fixed point at a higher energy scale is explored in details. Behaving like a collection of d_U (the scale dimension of the unparticle operator O_U) invisible massless particles, this unparticle can be unveiled by measurements of various energy distributions for the processes Z to fermion pair + U and e-e+ to gamma U at e-e+ colliders, as well as mono-jet production at hadron colliders. We also study the propagator effects of the unparticle through the Drell-Yan tree level process and the one-loop muon anomaly. 
0704.02589	Now you see it, now you don't - the circumstellar disk in the GRO  J1008--57 system	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. J.Coe (Southampton), A.J. Bird (Southampton), A.B. Hill (Southampton), V.A. McBride (Southampton), M. Schurch (Southampton), J. Galache (CfA), C. A. Wilson (NASA/MSFC), M. Finger (NASA/MSFC), D.A. Buckley (SAAO)E. Romero-Colmenero (SAAO)	 Abstract: Multiwavelength observations are reported here of the Be/X-ray binary pulsar system GRO J1008-57. Over ten years worth of data are gathered together to show that the periodic X-ray outbursts are dependant on both the binary motion and the size of the circumstellar disk. In the first instance an accurate orbital solution is determined from pulse periods, and in the second case the strength and shape of the Halpha emission line is shown to be a valuable indicator of disk size and its behaviour. Furthermore, the shape of the emission line permits a direct determination of the disk size which is in good agreement with theoretical estimates. A detailed study of the pulse period variations during outbursts determined the binary period to be 247.8, in good agreement with the period determined from the recurrence of the outbursts. 
0704.02590	Adiabatic quantum pumping at the Josephson frequency	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:S. Russo, J. Tobiska, T.M. Klapwijk, A.F. Morpurgo	 Abstract: We analyze theoretically adiabatic quantum pumping through a normal conductor that couples the normal regions of two superconductor/normal metal/superconductor Josephson junctions. By using the phases of the superconducting order parameter in the superconducting contacts as pumping parameters, we demonstrate that a non zero pumped charge can flow through the device. The device exploits the evolution of the superconducting phases due to the ac Josephson effect, and can therefore be operated at very high frequency, resulting in a pumped current as large as a few nanoAmperes. The experimental relevance of our calculations is discussed. 
0704.02591	Phases of three dimensional large N QCD on a continuum torus	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:R. Narayanan, H. Neuberger, F. Reynoso	 Abstract: It is established by numerical means that continuum large N QCD defined on a three dimensional torus can exist in four different phases. They are (i) confined phase; (ii) deconfined phase; (iii) small box at zero temperature and (iv) small box at high temperatures. 
0704.02592	A groupoid approach to noncommutative T-duality	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Calder Daenzer	 Abstract: Topological T-duality is a transformation taking a gerbe on a principal torus bundle to a gerbe on a principal dual-torus bundle. We give a new geometric construction of T-dualization, which allows the duality to be extended in following two directions. First, bundles of groups other than tori, even bundles of some nonabelian groups, can be dualized. Second, bundles whose duals are families of noncommutative groups (in the sense of noncommutative geometry) can be treated, though in this case the base space of the bundles is best viewed as a topological stack. Some methods developed for the construction may be of independent interest. These are a Pontryagin type duality that interchanges commutative principal bundles with gerbes, a nonabelian Takai type duality for groupoids, and the computation of certain equivariant Brauer groups. 
0704.02593	CPT and lepton number violation in neutrino sector: Modified mass matrix  and oscillation due to gravity	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Monika Sinha, Banibrata Mukhopadhyay	 Abstract: We study the consequences of CPT and lepton number violation in neutrino sector. For CPT violation we take gravity with which neutrino and antineutrino couple differently. Gravity mixes neutrino and antineutrino in an unequal ratio to give two mass eigenstates. Lepton number violation interaction together with CPT violation gives rise to neutrino-antineutrino oscillation. Subsequently, we study the neutrino flavor mixing and oscillation under the influence of gravity. It is found that gravity changes flavor oscillation significantly which influences the relative abundance of different flavors in present universe. We show that the neutrinoless double beta decay rate is modified due to presence of gravity- the origin of CPT violation, as the mass of the flavor state is modified. 
0704.02594	Computing invariants of algebraic group actions in arbitrary  characteristic	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:Harm Derksen, Gregor Kemper	 Abstract: Let G be an affine algebraic group acting on an affine variety X. We present an algorithm for computing generators of the invariant ring K[X]^G in the case where G is reductive. Furthermore, we address the case where G is connected and unipotent, so the invariant ring need not be finitely generated. For this case, we develop an algorithm which computes K[X]^G in terms of a so-called colon-operation. From this, generators of K[X]^G can be obtained in finite time if it is finitely generated. Under the additional hypothesis that K[X] is factorial, we present an algorithm that finds a quasi-affine variety whose coordinate ring is K[X]^G. Along the way, we develop some techniques for dealing with non-finitely generated algebras. In particular, we introduce the finite generation locus ideal. 
0704.02595	The Evolution of Dark Matter Halo Properties in Clusters, Filaments,  Sheets and Voids	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Oliver Hahn (1), C. Marcella Carollo (1), Cristiano Porciani (1), Avishai Dekel (2) ((1) ETH Zurich, (2) HU Jerusalem)	 Abstract: We use a series of N-body simulations of the LCDM cosmology to investigate the redshift evolution since z=1 of the properties and alignment with the large-scale structure of haloes in clusters, filaments, sheets and voids. We find that: (i) Once a rescaling of the halo mass with M*, the mass scale collapsing at redshift z, is performed, there is no further significant redshift dependence in the halo properties; (ii) The environment influences halo shape and formation time at all investigated redshifts for haloes with masses M<M*; and (iii) There is a significant alignment of both spin and shape of haloes with filaments and sheets. In detail, at all redshifts up to z=1: a) Haloes with M<M* tend to be more oblate when located in clusters than in the other environments; this trend is reversed at higher masses: above about M*, halos in clusters are typically more prolate than similar massive haloes in sheets, filaments and voids. b) Haloes with M>M* in filaments spin more rapidly than similar mass haloes in clusters; haloes in voids have the lowest median spin parameters; c) Haloes with M<M* tend to be younger in voids and older in clusters; d) In sheets, halo spin vectors tend to lie within the sheet plane independent of mass; in filaments, instead, haloes with M<M* tend to spin parallel to the filament and haloes with M>M* perpendicular to it. For masses M>M*, the major axis of haloes in filaments and sheets is strongly aligned with the filament or the sheet. Such halo-LSS alignments may be of importance in weak lensing analyses of cosmic shear. A question that is opened by our study is why, in the 0 < z < 1 redshift regime that we have investigated, the mass scale M* sets roughly the threshold below which the LSS-environment either begins to affect, or reverses, the properties of dark matter haloes. 
0704.02596	Computing Extensions of Linear Codes	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Markus Grassl	 Abstract: This paper deals with the problem of increasing the minimum distance of a linear code by adding one or more columns to the generator matrix. Several methods to compute extensions of linear codes are presented. Many codes improving the previously known lower bounds on the minimum distance have been found. 
0704.02597	Separability, entanglement and full families of commuting normal  matrices	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Jan Samsonowicz, Marek Kus, Maciej Lewenstein	 Abstract: We reduce the question whether a given quantum mixed state is separable or entangled to the problem of existence of a certain full family of commuting normal matrices whose matrix elements are partially determined by components of the pure states constituting a decomposition of the considered mixture. The method reproduces many known entanglement and/or separability criteria, and provides yet another geometrical characterization of mixed separable states. 
0704.02598	Very weak electron-phonon coupling and strong strain coupling in  manganites	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:S. Cox, J.C. Loudon, A.J. Williams, J.P. Attfield, J. Singleton, P.A. Midgley, N.D. Mathur	 Abstract: The coupling of the manganite stripe phase to the lattice and to strain has been investigated via transmission electron microscopy studies of polycrystalline and thin film manganites. In polycrystalline \PCMOfiftwo a lockin to $q/a^*=0.5$ in a sample with $x>0.5$ has been observed for the first time. Such a lockin has been predicted as a key part of the Landau CDW theory of the stripe phase. Thus it is possible to constrain the size of the electron-phonon coupling in the CDW Landau theory to between 0.04% and 0.05% of the electron-electron coupling term. In the thin film samples, films of the same thickness grown on two different substrates exhibited different wavevectors. The different strains present in the films on the two substrates can be related to the wavevector observed via Landau theory. It is demonstrated that the the elastic term which favours an incommensurate modulation has a similar size to the coupling between the strain and the wavevector, meaning that the coupling of strain to the superlattice is unexpectedly strong. 
0704.02599	Inclusive Charm Production in chi_b Decays	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Geoffrey T. Bodwin (Argonne), Eric Braaten, Daekyoung Kang (Ohio State U.), Jungil Lee (Korea U.)	 Abstract: We calculate the inclusive decay rate of the spin-triplet bottomonium states chi_{bJ} into charm hadrons, including the leading-order color-singlet and color-octet bb-bar annihilation mechanisms. We also calculate the momentum distribution of the charm quark from the decay of chi_{bJ}. The infrared divergences from the color-singlet process bb-bar -> cc-bar g are factored into the probability density at the origin for a bb-bar pair in a color-octet state. That probability density can be determined phenomenologically from the fraction of decays of chi_{bJ} that include charm hadrons. It can then be used to predict the partial widths into light hadrons for all four states in the P-wave bottomonium multiplet. 
0704.02600	On the cycling operation in braid groups	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Juan Gonzalez-Meneses, Volker Gebhardt	 Abstract: The cycling operation is a special kind of conjugation that can be applied to elements in Artin's braid groups, in order to reduce their length. It is a key ingredient of the usual solutions to the conjugacy problem in braid groups. In their seminal paper on braid-cryptography, Ko, Lee et al. proposed the {\it cycling problem} as a hard problem in braid groups that could be interesting for cryptography. In this paper we give a polynomial solution to that problem, mainly by showing that cycling is surjective, and using a result by Maffre which shows that pre-images under cycling can be computed fast. This result also holds in every Artin-Tits group of spherical type. On the other hand, the conjugacy search problem in braid groups is usually solved by computing some finite sets called (left) ultra summit sets (left-USS), using left normal forms of braids. But one can equally use right normal forms and compute right-USS's. Hard instances of the conjugacy search problem correspond to elements having big (left and right) USS's. One may think that even if some element has a big left-USS, it could possibly have a small right-USS. We show that this is not the case in the important particular case of rigid braids. More precisely, we show that the left-USS and the right-USS of a given rigid braid determine isomorphic graphs, with the arrows reversed, the isomorphism being defined using iterated cycling. We conjecture that the same is true for every element, not necessarily rigid, in braid groups and Artin-Tits groups of spherical type. 
0704.02601	GEMS: Galaxy fitting catalogues and testing parametric galaxy fitting  codes	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Boris Häußler, Daniel H. McIntosh, Marco Barden, Eric F. Bell, Hans-Walter Rix, Andrea Borch, Steven V. W. Beckwith, John A. R. Caldwell, Catherine Heymans, Knud Jahnke, Shardha Jogee, Sergey E. Koposov, Klaus Meisenheimer, Sebastian F. Sánchez, Rachel S. Somerville, Lutz Wisotzki, Christian Wolf	 Abstract: In the context of measuring structure and morphology of intermediate redshift galaxies with recent HST/ACS surveys, we tune, test, and compare two widely used fitting codes (GALFIT and GIM2D) for fitting single-component Sersic models to the light profiles of both simulated and real galaxy data. We find that fitting accuracy depends sensitively on galaxy profile shape. Exponential disks are well fit with Sersic models and have small measurement errors, whereas fits to de Vaucouleurs profiles show larger uncertainties owing to the large amount of light at large radii. We find that both codes provide reliable fits and little systematic error, when the effective surface brightness is above that of the sky. Moreover, both codes return errors that significantly underestimate the true fitting uncertainties, which are best estimated with simulations. We find that GIM2D suffers significant systematic errors for spheroids with close companions owing to the difficulty of effectively masking out neighboring galaxy light; there appears to be no work around to this important systematic in GIM2D's current implementation. While this crowding error affects only a small fraction of galaxies in GEMS, it must be accounted for in the analysis of deeper cosmological images or of more crowded fields with GIM2D. In contrast, GALFIT results are robust to the presence of neighbors because it can simultaneously fit the profiles of multiple companions thereby deblending their effect on the fit to the galaxy of interest. We find GALFIT's robustness to nearby companions and factor of >~20 faster runtime speed are important advantages over GIM2D for analyzing large HST/ACS datasets. Finally we include our final catalog of fit results for all 41,495 objects detected in GEMS. 
0704.02602	Investigation of continuous-time quantum walks via spectral analysis and  Laplace transform	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:M. A. Jafarizadeh, R. Sufiani	 Abstract: Continuous-time quantum walk (CTQW) on a given graph is investigated by using the techniques of the spectral analysis and inverse Laplace transform of the Stieltjes function (Stieltjes transform of the spectral distribution) associated with the graph. It is shown that, the probability amplitude of observing the CTQW at a given site at time $t$ is related to the inverse Laplace transformation of the Stieltjes function, namely, one can calculate the probability amplitudes only by taking the inverse laplace transform of the function $iG_{\mu}(is)$, where $G_{\mu}(x)$ is the Stieltjes function of the graph. The preference of this procedure is that, there is no any need to know the spectrum of the graph 
0704.02603	Molecular line intensities as measures of cloud masses - II. Conversion  factors for specific galaxy types	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T. A. Bell, S. Viti, D. A. Williams	 Abstract: We present theoretically-established values of the CO-to-H2 and C-to-H2 conversion factors that may be used to estimate the gas masses of external galaxies. We consider four distinct galaxy types, represented by M51, NGC 6946, M82 and SMC N27. The physical parameters that best represent the conditions within the molecular clouds in each of the galaxy types are estimated using a chi^2 analysis of several observed atomic fine structure and CO rotational lines. This analysis is explored over a wide range of density, radiation field, extinction, and other relevant parameters. Using these estimated physical conditions in methods that we have previously established, CO-to-H2 conversion factors are then computed for CO transitions up to J=9-8. For the conventional CO(1-0) transition, the computed conversion factor varies significantly below and above the canonical value for the Milky Way in the four galaxy types considered. Since atomic carbon emission is now frequently used as a probe of external galaxies, we also present, for the first time, the C-to-H2 conversion factor for this emission in the four galaxy types considered. 
0704.02604	Universal Substructure Distributions in LCDM halos: Can we find a Fossil  Group?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:E. D'Onghia (1), A.V. Maccio' (2), G. Lake (1), J. Stadel (1), B. Moore (1) ((1) University of Zurich, (2) MPIA Heidelberg)	 Abstract: We use large cosmological N-body simulations to study the subhalo population in galaxy group sized halos. In particular, we look for fossil group candidates with typical masses ~10-25% of Virgo cluster but with an order of magnitude less substructure. We examine recent claims that the earliest systems to form are deficient enough in substructure to explain the luminosity function found in fossil groups. Although our simulations show a correlation between the halo formation time and the number of subhalos, the maximum suppression of subhalos is a factor of 2-2.5, whereas a factor of 6 is required to match fossil groups and galaxies. While the number of subhalos depends weakly on the formation time, the slope of the halo substructure velocity function does not. The satellite population within Cold Dark Matter (CDM) halos is self-similar at scales between galaxies and galaxy clusters regardless of mass, whereas current observations show a break in self-similarity at a mass scale corresponding to group of galaxies. 
0704.02605	Mapping the Cosmological Confidence Ball Surface	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Brent Bryan, Jeff Schneider, Christopher J. Miller, Robert C. Nichol, Christopher Genovese, Larry Wasserman	 Abstract: We present a new technique to compute simultaneously valid confidence intervals for a set of model parameters. We apply our method to the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe's (WMAP) Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) data, exploring a seven dimensional space (tau, Omega_DE, Omega_M, omega_DM, omega_B, f_nu, n_s). We find two distinct regions-of-interest: the standard Concordance Model, and a region with large values of omega_DM, omega_B and H_0. This second peak in parameter space can be rejected by applying a constraint (or a prior) on the allowable values of the Hubble constant. Our new technique uses a non-parametric fit to the data, along with a frequentist approach and a smart search algorithm to map out a statistical confidence surface. The result is a confidence ``ball'': a set of parameter values that contains the true value with probability at least 1-alpha. Our algorithm performs a role similar to the often used Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC), which samples from the posterior probability function in order to provide Bayesian credible intervals on the parameters. While the MCMC approach samples densely around a peak in the posterior, our new technique allows cosmologists to perform efficient analyses around any regions of interest: e.g., the peak itself, or, possibly more importantly, the 1-alpha confidence surface. 
0704.02606	Cosmological constraints combining H(z), CMB shift and SNIa  observational data	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ruth Lazkoz (Basque U., Bilbao), Elisabetta Majerotto (ICG, Portsmouth)	 Abstract: Recently H(z) data obtained from differential ages of galaxies have been proposed as a new geometrical probe of dark energy. In this paper we use those data, combined with other background tests (CMB shift and SNIa data), to constrain a set of general relativistic dark energy models together with some other models motivated by extra dimensions. Our analysis rests mostly on Bayesian statistics, and we conclude that LCDM is at least substantially favoured, and that braneworld models are less favoured than general relativistic ones. 
0704.02607	The Santa Fe Light Cone Simulation Project: I. Confusion and the WHIM in  Upcoming Sunyaev-Zel'dovich Effect Surveys	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Eric J. Hallman (1), Brian W. O'Shea (2), Jack O. Burns (1), Michael L. Norman (3), Robert Harkness (4), Rick Wagner (3) ((1) University of Colorado, (2) Los Alamos National Laboratory, (3) University of California-San Diego, (4) San Diego Supercomputing Center)	 Abstract: We present the first results from a new generation of simulated large sky coverage (~100 square degrees) Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect (SZE) cluster surveys using the cosmological adaptive mesh refinement N-body/hydro code Enzo. We have simulated a very large (512^3h^{-3}Mpc^3) volume with unprecedented dynamic range. We have generated simulated light cones to match the resolution and sensitivity of current and future SZE instruments. Unlike many previous studies of this type, our simulation includes unbound gas, where an appreciable fraction of the baryons in the universe reside. We have found that cluster line-of-sight overlap may be a significant issue in upcoming single-dish SZE surveys. Smaller beam surveys (~1 arcmin) have more than one massive cluster within a beam diameter 5-10% of the time, and a larger beam experiment like Planck has multiple clusters per beam 60% of the time. We explore the contribution of unresolved halos and unbound gas to the SZE signature at the maximum decrement. We find that there is a contribution from gas outside clusters of ~16% per object on average for upcoming surveys. This adds both bias and scatter to the deduced value of the integrated SZE, adding difficulty in accurately calibrating a cluster Y-M relationship. Finally, we find that in images where objects with M > 5x10^{13} M_{\odot} have had their SZE signatures removed, roughly a third of the total SZE flux still remains. This gas exists at least partially in the Warm Hot Intergalactic Medium (WHIM), and will possibly be detectable with the upcoming generation of SZE surveys. 
0704.02608	WHAM: A WENO-based general relativistic numerical scheme I:  Hydrodynamics	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Alexander Tchekhovskoy, Jonathan C. McKinney, Ramesh Narayan (Harvard-CfA)	 Abstract: Active galactic nuclei, x-ray binaries, pulsars, and gamma-ray bursts are all believed to be powered by compact objects surrounded by relativistic plasma flows driving phenomena such as accretion, winds, and jets. These flows are often accurately modelled by the relativistic magnetohydrodynamics (MHD) approximation. Time-dependent numerical MHD simulations have proven to be especially insightful, but one regime that remains difficult to simulate is when the energy scales (kinetic, thermal, magnetic) within the plasma become disparate. We develop a numerical scheme that significantly improves the accuracy and robustness of the solution in this regime. We use a modified form of the WENO method to construct a finite-volume general relativistic hydrodynamics code called WHAM that converges at fifth order. We avoid (1) field-by-field decomposition by adaptively reducing down to 2-point stencils near discontinuities for a more accurate treatment of shocks, and (2) excessive reduction to low order stencils, as in the standard WENO formalism, by maintaining high order accuracy in smooth monotonic flows. Our scheme performs the proper surface integral of the fluxes, converts cell averaged conserved quantities to point conserved quantities before performing the reconstruction step, and correctly averages all source terms. We demonstrate that the scheme is robust in strong shocks, very accurate in smooth flows, and maintains accuracy even when the energy scales in the flow are highly disparate. 
0704.02609	A-infinity structure on simplicial complexes	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:V.Dolotin, A.Morozov, Sh.Shakirov	 Abstract: A discrete (finite-difference) analogue of differential forms is considered, defined on simplicial complexes, including triangulations of continuous manifolds. Various operations are explicitly defined on these forms, including exterior derivative and exterior product. The latter one is non-associative. Instead, as anticipated, it is a part of non-trivial A-infinity structure, involving a chain of poly-linear operations, constrained by nilpotency relation: (d + \wedge + m + ...)^n = 0 with n=2. 
0704.02610	Drift of charged defects in local fields as aging mechanism in  ferroelectrics	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Yuri A. Genenko, Doru C. Lupascu	 Abstract: Point defect migration is considered as a mechanism for aging in ferroelectrics. Numerical results are given for the coupled problems of point defect migration and electrostatic energy relaxation in a 2D domain configuration. The peak values of the clamping pressure at domain walls are in the range of $10^6$ Pa, which corresponds to macroscopically observed coercive stresses in perovskite ferroelectrics. The effect is compared to mechanisms involving orientational reordering of defect dipoles in the bulk of domains. Domain clamping is significantly stronger in the drift mechanism than in the orientational picture for the same material parameters. 
0704.02611	Coulomb drag as a measure of trigonal warping in doped graphene	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:B.N. Narozhny	 Abstract: I suggest to use the effect of Coulomb drag between two closely positioned graphite monolayers (graphene sheets) for experimental measurement of the strength of weak non-linearities of the spectrum in graphene. I consider trigonal warping as a representative mechanism responsible for the drag effect. Since graphene is relatively defect-free, I evaluate the drag conductivity in the ballistic regime and find that it is proportional to the fourth power of the warping strength. 
0704.02612	Relativistic Effects in Extreme Mass Ratio Gravitational Wave Bursts	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nicolas Yunes, Carlos F. Sopuerta, Louis J. Rubbo, Kelly Holley-Bockelmann	 Abstract: Extreme mass ratio bursts (EMRBs) have been proposed as a possible source for future space-borne gravitational wave detectors, such as the Laser Interferometer Space Antenna (LISA). These events are characterized by long-period, nearly-radial orbits of compact objects around a central massive black hole. The gravitational radiation emitted during such events consists of a short burst, corresponding to periapse passage, followed by a longer, silent interval. In this paper we investigate the impact of including relativistic corrections to the description of the compact object's trajectory via a geodesic treatment, as well as including higher-order multipole corrections in the waveform calculation. The degree to which the relativistic corrections are important depends on the EMRB's orbital parameters. We find that relativistic EMRBs (v_{max}}/c > 0.25) are not rare and actually account for approximately half of the events in our astrophysical model. The relativistic corrections tend to significantly change the waveform amplitude and phase relative to a Newtonian description, although some of this dephasing could be mimicked by parameter errors. The dephasing over several bursts could be of particular importance not only to gravitational wave detection, but also to parameter estimation, since it is highly correlated to the spin of the massive black hole. Consequently, we postulate that if a relativistic EMRB is detected, such dephasing might be used to probe the relativistic character of the massive black hole and obtain information about its spin. 
0704.02613	Reformulating Supersymmetry with a Generalized Dolbeault Operator	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Alessandro Tomasiello	 Abstract: The conditions for N=1 supersymmetry in type II supergravity have been previously reformulated in terms of generalized complex geometry. We improve that reformulation so as to completely eliminate the remaining explicit dependence on the metric. Doing so involves a natural generalization of the Dolbeault operator. As an application, we present some general arguments about supersymmetric moduli. In particular, a subset of them are then classified by a certain cohomology. We also argue that the Dolbeault reformulation should make it easier to find existence theorems for the N=1 equations. 
0704.02614	Screening of Excitons in Single, Suspended Carbon Nanotubes	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Andrew G. Walsh, A. Nickolas Vamivakas, Yan Yin, Stephen B. Cronin, M. Selim Unlu, Bennett B. Goldberg, Anna K. Swan	 Abstract: Resonant Raman spectroscopy of single carbon nanotubes suspended across trenches displays red shifts of up to 30 meV of the electronic transition energies as a function of the surrounding dielectric environment. We develop a simple scaling relationship between the exciton binding energy and the external dielectric function and thus quantify the effect of screening. Our results imply that the underlying particle interaction energies change by hundreds of meV. 
0704.02615	Cohomotopy invariants and the universal cohomotopy invariant jump  formula	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Christian Okonek, Andrei Teleman	 Abstract: Starting from ideas of Furuta, we develop a general formalism for the construction of cohomotopy invariants associated with a certain class of $S^1$-equivariant non-linear maps between Hilbert bundles. Applied to the Seiberg-Witten map, this formalism yields a new class of cohomotopy Seiberg-Witten invariants which have clear functorial properties with respect to diffeomorphisms of 4-manifolds. Our invariants and the Bauer-Furuta classes are directly comparable for 4-manifolds with $b_1=0$; they are equivalent when $b_1=0$ and $b_+>1$, but are finer in the case $b_1=0$, $b_+=1$ (they detect the wall-crossing phenomena). We study fundamental properties of the new invariants in a very general framework. In particular we prove a universal cohomotopy invariant jump formula and a multiplicative property. The formalism applies to other gauge theoretical problems, e.g. to the theory of gauge theoretical (Hamiltonian) Gromov-Witten invariants. 
0704.02616	Particles Associated with Omega Produced at Intermediate p_T	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Charles B. Chiu, Rudolph C. Hwa	 Abstract: The dual observation of the Omega production in central Au+Au collisions having both an exponential p_T distribution and also associated particles above the background has been referred to as the Omega puzzle. We give a quantitative description of how that puzzle can be understood in terms of phantom jets, where only ridges without peaks are produced to give rise to both the Omega trigger and its associated particles. In the framework of recombination of thermal partons we are able to reproduce both the \Delta\phi distribution and the trigger-momentum dependence of the yield of the associated particles. We make predictions on other observables that can be checked by further analyses of the data. 
0704.02617	Regions without complex zeros for chromatic polynomials on graphs with  bounded degree	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Roberto Fernandez, Aldo Procacci	 Abstract: We prove that the chromatic polynomial $P_\mathbb{G}(q)$ of a finite graph $\mathbb{G}$ of maximal degree $\D$ is free of zeros for $\card q\ge C^*(\D)$ with $$ C^*(\D) = \min_{0<x<2^{1\over \D}-1} {(1+x)^{\D-1}\over x [2-(1+x)^\D]} $$ This improves results by Sokal (2001) and Borgs (2005). Furthermore, we present a strengthening of this condition for graphs with no triangle-free vertices. 
0704.02618	Testing the Standard Model by precision measurement of the weak charges  of quarks	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:R. D. Young, R. D. Carlini, A. W. Thomas, J. Roche	 Abstract: In a global analysis of the latest parity-violating electron scattering measurements on nuclear targets, we demonstrate a significant improvement in the experimental knowledge of the weak neutral-current lepton-quark interactions at low energy. The precision of this new result, combined with earlier atomic parity-violation measurements, places tight constraints on the size of possible contributions from physics beyond the Standard Model. Consequently, this result improves the lower-bound on the scale of relevant new physics to ~1 TeV. 
0704.02619	Statistical Behavior Of Domain Systems	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Diego Luis Gonzalez, Gabriel Tellez (Universidad de los Andes, Bogota, Colombia)	 Abstract: We study the statistical behavior of two out of equilibrium systems. The first one is a quasi one-dimensional gas with two species of particles under the action of an external field which drives each species in opposite directions. The second one is a one-dimensional spin system with nearest neighbor interactions also under the influence of an external driving force. Both systems show a dynamical scaling with domain formation. The statistical behavior of these domains is compared with models based on the coalescing random walk and the interacting random walk. We find that the scaling domain size distribution of the gas and the spin systems is well fitted by the Wigner surmise, which lead us to explore a possible connection between these systems and the circular orthogonal ensemble of random matrices. However, the study of the correlation function of the domain edges, show that the statistical behavior of the domains in both gas and spin systems, is not completely well described by circular orthogonal ensemble, nor it is by other models proposed such as the coalescing random walk and the interacting random walk. Nevertheless, we find that a simple model of independent intervals describe more closely the statistical behavior of the domains formed in these systems. 
0704.02620	Recent Developments in Maser Theory	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Moshe Elitzur	 Abstract: This review covers selected developments in maser theory since the previous meeting, "Cosmic Masers: From Proto-Stars to Black Holes" (Migenes & Reid 2002). Topics included are time variability of fundamental constants, pumping of OH megamasers and indicators for differentiating disks from bi-directional outflows. 
0704.02621	Experimental studies on vacancy induced ferromagnetism in undoped TiO2	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Abdul K Rumaiz, Bakhtyar Ali, Abdullah Ceylan, M. Boggs, T. Beebe, S. Ismat Shah	 Abstract: Room temperature ferromagnetism is observed in undoped TiO2 films deposited on Si substrates using pulsed laser deposition (PLD). The ferromagnetic properties of the samples depend on the oxygen partial pressure during the PLD synthesis. The appearance of higher binding energy component (HBEC) in the oxygen 1s core peak from x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) suggests the presence of oxygen vacancies in these samples. The amount of oxygen during the synthesis determines the vacancy concentration in the samples which is directly related to the magnetic behavior of the samples. The magnetic moment decreases with oxygen vacancy concentration in the samples. Valence band measurements were performed to study the electronic structure of both stoichometric and reduced TiO2. The analyses show the presence of Ti 3d band near the Fermi level in reduced TiO2 samples. These bands are otherwise empty in stoichiometric TiO2 and reside in the conduction band which makes them unobservable by XPS. The existence of this Ti 3d band near the Fermi level can possibly lead to Stoner splitting of the band. 
0704.02622	Metallic stripes and the universality of the anomalous half-breathing  phonon in high-Tc cuprates	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:S.I. Mukhin, A. Mesaros, Jan Zaanen, F.V. Kusmartsev	 Abstract: We demonstrate that the strong anomalies in the high frequency LO-phonon spectrum in cuprate superconductors can in principle be explained by the enhanced electronic polarizability associated with the self-organized one dimensionality of metallic stripes. Contrary to the current interpretation in terms of transversal stripe fluctuations, the anomaly should occur at momenta parallel to the stripes. The doping dependence of the anomaly is naturally explained, and we predict that the phonon line-width and the spread of the anomaly in the transverse momentum decrease with increasing temperature while high resolution measurements should reveal a characteristic substructure to the anomaly. 
0704.02623	Bragg spectroscopy of a superfluid Bose-Hubbard gas	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:X. Du, Shoupu Wan, Emek Yesilada, C. Ryu, D. J. Heinzen, Z. X. Liang, Biao Wu	 Abstract: Bragg spectroscopy is used to measure excitations of a trapped, quantum-degenerate gas of 87Rb atoms in a 3-dimensional optical lattice. The measurements are carried out over a range of optical lattice depths in the superfluid phase of the Bose-Hubbard model. For fixed wavevector, the resonant frequency of the excitation is found to decrease with increasing lattice depth. A numerical calculation of the resonant frequencies based on Bogoliubov theory shows a less steep rate of decrease than the measurements. 
0704.02624	Comparison of Dissipative Particle Dynamics and Langevin thermostats for  out-of-equilibrium simulations of polymeric systems	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:C. Pastorino, T. Kreer, M. Mueller, K. Binder	 Abstract: In this work we compare and characterize the behavior of Langevin and Dissipative Particle Dynamics (DPD) thermostats in a broad range of non-equilibrium simulations of polymeric systems. Polymer brushes in relative sliding motion, polymeric liquids in Poiseuille and Couette flows, and brush-melt interfaces are used as model systems to analyze the efficiency and limitations of different Langevin and DPD thermostat implementations. Widely used coarse-grained bead-spring models under good and poor solvent conditions are employed to assess the effects of the thermostats. We considered equilibrium, transient, and steady state examples for testing the ability of the thermostats to maintain constant temperature and to reproduce the underlying physical phenomena in non-equilibrium situations. The common practice of switching-off the Langevin thermostat in the flow direction is also critically revisited. The efficiency of different weight functions for the DPD thermostat is quantitatively analyzed as a function of the solvent quality and the non-equilibrium situation. 
0704.02625	Harmonic sections in sphere bundles, normal neighborhoods of reduction  loci, and instanton moduli spaces on definite 4-manifolds	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Andrei Teleman	 Abstract: We prove an existence theorem for gauge invariant $L^2$-normal neighborhoods of the reduction loci in the space ${\cal A}_a(E)$ of oriented connections on a fixed Hermitian 2-bundle $E$. We use this to obtain results on the topology of the moduli space ${\cal B}_a(E)$ of (non-necessarily irreducible) oriented connections, and to study the Donaldson $\mu$-classes globally around the reduction loci. In this part of the article we use essentially the concept of harmonic section in a sphere bundle with respect to an Euclidean connection. Second, we concentrate on moduli spaces of instantons on definite 4-manifolds with arbitrary first Betti number. We prove strong generic regularity results which imply (for bundles with "odd" first Chern class) the existence of a connected, dense open set of "good" metrics for which all the reductions in the Uhlenbeck compactification of the moduli space are simultaneously regular. These results can be used to define new Donaldson type invariants for definite 4-manifolds. The idea behind this construction is to notice that, for a good metric $g$, the geometry of the instanton moduli spaces around the reduction loci is always the same, independently of the choice of $g$. The connectedness of the space of good metrics is important, in order to prove that no wall-crossing phenomena (jumps of invariants) occur. Moreover, we notice that, for low instanton numbers, the corresponding moduli spaces are a priori compact and contain no reductions at all so, in these cases, the existence of well-defined Donaldson type invariants is obvious. The natural question is to decide whether these new Donaldson type invariants yield essentially new differential topological information on the base manifold have, or have a purely topological nature. 
0704.02626	Transport measurements across a tunable potential barrier in graphene	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:B. Huard, J.A. Sulpizio, N. Stander, K. Todd, B. Yang, D. Goldhaber-Gordon	 Abstract: The peculiar nature of electron scattering in graphene is among many exciting theoretical predictions for the physical properties of this material. To investigate electron scattering properties in a graphene plane, we have created a gate-tunable potential barrier within a single-layer graphene sheet. We report measurements of electrical transport across this structure as the tunable barrier potential is swept through a range of heights. When the barrier is sufficiently strong to form a bipolar junctions (npn or pnp) within the graphene sheet, the resistance across the barrier sharply increases. We compare these results to predictions for both diffusive and ballistic transport, as the barrier rises on a length scale comparable to the mean free path. Finally, we show how a magnetic field modifies transport across the barrier. 
0704.02627	Atom-wave diffraction between the Raman-Nath and the Bragg regime:  Effective Rabi frequency, losses, and phase shifts	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:Holger Mueller, Sheng-wey Chiow, Steven Chu	 Abstract: We present an analytic theory of the diffraction of (matter) waves by a lattice in the "quasi-Bragg" regime, by which we mean the transition region between the long-interaction Bragg and "channelling" regimes and the short-interaction Raman-Nath regime. The Schroedinger equation is solved by adiabatic expansion, using the conventional adiabatic approximation as a starting point, and re-inserting the result into the Schroedinger equation to yield a second order correction. Closed expressions for arbitrary pulse shapes and diffraction orders are obtained and the losses of the population to output states otherwise forbidden by the Bragg condition are derived. We consider the phase shift due to couplings of the desired output to these states that depends on the interaction strength and duration and show how these can be kept negligible by a choice of smooth (e.g., Gaussian) envelope functions even in situations that substantially violate the adiabaticity condition. We also give an efficient method for calculating the effective Rabi frequency (which is related to the eigenvalues of Mathieu functions) in the quasi-Bragg regime. 
0704.02628	Average $p_t$ as a probe of high energy QCD dynamics	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Jamal Jalilian-Marian	 Abstract: Average transverse momentum of hadrons produced in high energy collisions is proposed as a diagnostic probe of high density (saturation) physics. We show that by introducing and varying a transverse momentum cutoff in the definition of the average transverse momentum, one can eliminate the uncertainty in the overall magnitude of the leading order hadron production cross section in high energy collisions, and semi-quantitatively map the different dynamical regions predicted by the saturation physics. We discuss the applications of this method to pion production at RHIC and LHC and make quantitative predictions for the average transverse momentum of produced pions in the kinematics appropriate for the RHIC and LHC experiments. 
0704.02629	Families of holomorphic bundles	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Andrei Teleman	 Abstract: The first goal of the article is to solve several fundamental problems in the theory of holomorphic bundles over non-algebraic manifolds: For instance we prove that stability and semi-stability are Zariski open properties in families when the Gauduchon degree map is a topological invariant, or when the parameter manifold is compact. Second we show that, for a generically stable family of bundles over a K\"ahler manifold, the Petersson-Weil form extends as a closed positive current on the whole parameter space of the family. This extension theorem uses classical tools from Yang-Mills theory developed by Donaldson (e.g. the Donaldson functional and the heat equation for Hermitian metrics on a holomorphic bundle). We apply these results to study families of bundles over a K\"ahlerian manifold $Y$ parameterized by a non-K\"ahlerian surface $X$, proving that such families must satisfy very restrictive conditions. These results play an important role in our program to prove existence of curves on class VII surfaces. 
0704.02630	Are We Typical?	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:James B. Hartle, Mark Srednicki	 Abstract: Bayesian probability theory is used to analyze the oft-made assumption that humans are typical observers in the universe. Some theoretical calculations make the {\it selection fallacy} that we are randomly chosen from a class of objects by some physical process, despite the absence of any evidence for such a process, or any observational evidence favoring our typicality. It is possible to favor theories in which we are typical by appropriately choosing their prior probabilities, but such assumptions should be made explicit to avoid confusion. 
0704.02631	The E-theoretic descent functor for groupoids	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Alan L. T. Paterson	 Abstract: The paper establishes, for a wide class of locally compact groupoids $\Gamma$, the E-theoretic descent functor at the $C^{*}$-algebra level, in a way parallel to that established for locally compact groups by Guentner, Higson and Trout. The second section shows that $\Gamma$-actions on a $C_{0}(X)$-algebra $B$, where $X$ is the unit space of $\Gamma$, can be usefully formulated in terms of an action on the associated bundle $B^{\sharp}$. The third section shows that the functor $B\to C^{*}(\Gamma,B)$ is continuous and exact, and uses the disintegration theory of J. Renault. The last section establishes the existence of the descent functor under a very mild condition on $\Gamma$, the main technical difficulty involved being that of finding a $\Gamma$-algebra that plays the role of C_{b}(T,B)^{cont}$ in the group case. 
0704.02632	Structure of the First and Second Neighbor Shells of Water: Quantitative  Relation with Translational and Orientational Order	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Zhenyu Yan, Sergey V. Buldyrev, Pradeep Kumar, Nicolas Giovambattista, Pablo G. Debenedetti, H. Eugene Stanley	 Abstract: We perform molecular dynamics simulation of water using the TIP5P model to quantify structural order in both the first shell (defined by four nearest neighbors)and second shell (defined by twelve next-nearest neighbors) of a central water molecule. We find the anomalous decrease of orientational order upon compression occurs in both shells, but the anomalous decrease of translational order upon compression occurs {\it mainly in the second shell}. The decreases of translational and orientational orders upon compression ("structural anomaly") are thus correlated only in the second shell. Our findings quantitatively confirm the qualitative idea that the thermodynamic, dynamic and structural anomalies of water are related to changes in the second shell upon compression. 
0704.02633	Integral Formulas for the Asymmetric Simple Exclusion Process	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Craig A. Tracy, Harold Widom	 Abstract: In this paper we obtain general integral formulas for probabilities in the asymmetric simple exclusion process (ASEP) on the integer lattice with nearest neighbor hopping rates p to the right and q=1-p to the left. For the most part we consider an N-particle system but for certain of these formulas we can take the limit as N goes to infinity. First we obtain, for the N-particle system, a formula for the probability of a configuration at time t, given the initial configuration. For this we use Bethe Ansatz ideas to solve the master equation, extending a result of Schuetz for the case N=2. The main results of the paper, derived from this, are integral formulas for the probability, for given initial configuration, that the m'th left-most particle is at x at time t. In one of these formulas we can take the limit as N goes to infinity, and it gives the probability for an infinite system where the initial configuration is bounded on one side. For the special case of the totally asymmetric simple exclusion process (TASEP) our formulas reduce to the known ones. 
0704.02634	Instantons and curves on class VII surfaces	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Andrei Teleman	 Abstract: We develop a general strategy, based on gauge theoretical methods, to prove existence of curves on class VII surfaces. We prove that, for $b_2=2$, every minimal class VII surface has a cycle of rational curves hence, by a result of Nakamura, is a global deformation of a one parameter family of blown up primary Hopf surfaces. The case $b_2=1$ has been solved in a previous article. The fundamental object intervening in our strategy is the moduli space ${\mathcal M}^{\pst}(0,{\mathcal K})$ of polystable bundles ${\mathcal E}$ with $c_2({\mathcal E})=0$, $\det({\mathcal E})={\mathcal K}$. For large $b_2$ the geometry of this moduli space becomes very complicated. The case $b_2=2$ treated here in detail requires new ideas and difficult techniques of both complex geometric and gauge theoretical nature. 
0704.02635	Improved actions and asymptotic scaling in lattice Yang-Mills theory	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:Kurt Langfeld	 Abstract: Improved actions in SU(2) and SU(3) lattice gauge theories are investigated with an emphasis on asymptotic scaling. A new scheme for tadpole improvement is proposed. The standard but heuristic tadpole improvement emerges from a mean field approximation from the new approach. Scaling is investigated by means of the large distance static quark potential. Both, the generic and the new tadpole scheme yield significant improvements on asymptotic scaling when compared with loop improved actions. A study of the rotational symmetry breaking terms, however, reveals that only the new improvement scheme efficiently eliminates the leading irrelevant term from the action. 
0704.02636	Linkage between Accretion Disks and Blazars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Geoffrey V. Bicknell, Jianke Li	 Abstract: The magnetic field in an accretion disk is estimated assuming that all of the angular momentum within prescribed accretion disk radii is removed by a jet. The magnetic field estimated at the base of the jet is extrapolated to the blazar emission region using a model for a relativistic axisymmetric jet combined with some simplifying assumptions based on the relativistic nature of the flow. The extrapolated magnetic field is compared with estimates based upon the synchrotron and inverse Compton emission from three blazars, MKN 501, MKN 421 and PKS 2155-304. The magnetic fields evaluated from pure synchrotron self- Compton models are inconsistent with the magnetic fields extrapolated in this way. However, in two cases inverse Compton models in which a substantial part of the soft photon field is generated locally agree well, mainly because these models imply magnetic field strengths which are closer to being consistent with Poynting flux dominated jets. This comparison is based on estimating the mass accretion rate from the jet energy flux. Further comparisons along these lines will be facilitated by independent estimates of the mass accretion rate in blazars and by more detailed models for jet propagation near the black hole. 
0704.02637	Observational consequences of the hypothesized helium rich stellar  population in Omega Centauri	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G. Newsham, D. M. Terndrup (Ohio State)	 Abstract: In response to the proposed high helium content stars as an explanation for the double main sequence observed in Omega Centauri, we investigated the consequences of such stars elsewhere on the color-magnitude diagram. We concentrated on the horizontal branch where the effects of high helium are expected to show themselves more clearly. In the process, we developed a procedure for comparing the mass loss suffered by differing stellar populations in a physically motivated manner. High helium stars in the numbers proposed seem absent from the horizontal branch of Omega Centauri unless their mass loss history is very different from that of the majority metal-poor stars. It is possible to generate a double main sequence with existing Omega Centauri stars via accretion of helium rich pollution consistent with the latest AGB ejecta theoretical yields, and such polluted stars are consistent with the observed HB morphology of Omega Centauri. Polluted models are consistent with observed merging of the main sequences as opposed to our models of helium rich stars. Using the (B-R)/(B+V+R) statistic, we find that the high helium bMS stars require an age difference compared to the rMS stars that is too great, whereas the pollution scenario stars have no such conflict for inferred Omega Centauri mass losses. 
0704.02638	Donaldson theory on non-Kählerian surfaces and class $VII$ surfaces  with $b_2=1$	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Andrei Teleman	 Abstract: We prove that any class $VII$ surface with $b_2=1$ has curves. This implies the "Global Spherical Shell conjecture" in the case $b_2=1$: Any minimal class $VII$ surface with $b_2=1$ admits a global spherical shell, hence it is isomorphic to one of the surfaces in the known list. The main idea of the proof is to show that a certain moduli space of PU(2)-instantons on a surface $X$ with no curves (if such a surface existed) would contain a closed Riemann surface $Y$ whose general points correspond to non-filtrable holomorphic bundles on $X$. Then we pass from a family of bundles on $X$ parameterized by $Y$ to a family of bundles on $Y$ parameterized by $X$, and we use the algebraicity of $Y$ to obtain a contradiction. The proof uses essentially techniques from Donaldson theory: compactness theorems for moduli spaces of PU(2)-instantons and the Kobayashi-Hitchin correspondence on surfaces. 
0704.02639	Isolated fixed points and moment maps of symplectic manifolds	Symplectic Geometry (math.SG)	Authors:Jin Hong Kim	 Abstract: Withdrawn due to an incompleteness of the main results. 
0704.02640	VLBI detection of an Infrared-Faint Radio Source	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ray P. Norris, Steven Tingay, Chris Phillips, Enno Middelberg, Adam Deller, Philip N. Appleton	 Abstract: Infrared-Faint Radio Sources represent a new and unexpected class of object which is bright at radio wavelengths but unusually faint at infrared wavelengths. If, like most mJy radio sources, they were either conventional active or star-forming galaxies in the local Universe, we would expect them to be detectable at infrared wavelengths, and so their non-detection by the Spitzer Space Telescope is surprising. Here we report the detection of one of these sources using Very Long Baseline Interferometry, from which we conclude that the sources are driven by Active Galactic Nuclei. We suggest that these sources are either normal radio-loud quasars at high redshift or abnormally obscured radio galaxies. 
0704.02641	Phase Closure at 691 GHz using the Submillimeter Array	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T.R. Hunter, A.E.T. Schinckel, A.B. Peck, R.D. Christensen, R. Blundell, A. Camacho, F. Patt, K. Sakamoto, K.H. Young	 Abstract: Phase closure at 682 GHz and 691 GHz was first achieved using three antennas of the Submillimeter Array (SMA) interferometer located on Mauna Kea, Hawaii. Initially, phase closure was demonstrated at 682.5 GHz on Sept. 19, 2002 using an artificial ground-based "beacon" signal. Subsequently, astronomical detections of both Saturn and Uranus were made at the frequency of the CO(6-5) transition (691.473 GHz) on all three baselines on Sept. 22, 2002. While the larger planets such as Saturn are heavily resolved even on these short baselines (25.2m, 25.2m and 16.4m), phase closure was achieved on Uranus and Callisto. This was the first successful experiment to obtain phase closure in this frequency band. The CO(6-5) line was also detected towards Orion BN/KL and other Galactic sources, as was the vibrationally-excited 658 GHz water maser line toward evolved stars. We present these historic detections, as well as the first arcsecond-scale images obtained in this frequency band. 
0704.02642	Revisiting He-like X-ray Emission Line Plasma Diagnostics	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. L. Porter, G. J. Ferland	 Abstract: A complete model of helium-like line and continuum emission has been incorporated into the plasma simulation code Cloudy. All elements between He and Zn are treated, any number of levels can be considered, and radiative and collisional processes are included. This includes photoionization from all levels, line transfer including continuum pumping and destruction by background opacities, scattering, and collisional processes. The model is calculated self-consistently along with the ionization and thermal structure of the surrounding nebula. The result is a complete line and continuum spectrum of the plasma. Here we focus on the ions of the He I sequence and reconsider the standard helium-like X-ray diagnostics. We first consider semi-analytical predictions and compare these with previous work in the low-density, optically-thin limit. We then perform numerical calculations of helium-like X-ray emission (such as is observed in some regions of Seyferts) and predict line ratios as a function of ionizing flux, hydrogen density, and column density. In particular, we demonstrate that, in photoionized plasmas, the $R$-ratio, a density indicator in a collisional plasma, depends on the ionization fraction and is strongly affected by optical depth for large column densities. We also introduce the notion that the $R$-ratio is a measure of the incident continuum at UV wavelengths. The $G$-ratio, which is temperature-sensitive in a collisional plasma, is also discussed, and shown to be strongly affected by continuum pumping and optical depth as well. These distinguish a photoionized plasma from the more commonly studied collisional case. 
0704.02643	Eclipsing light curves for accretion flows around a rotating black hole  and atmospheric effects of the companion star	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Rohta Takahashi, Ken-Ya Watarai	 Abstract: We calculate eclipsing light curves for accretion flows around a rotating black hole taking into account the atmospheric effects of the companion star. In the cases of no atmospheric effects, the light curves contain the information of the black hole spin because most of the X-ray photons around 1 keV usually come from the blueshifted part of the accretion flow near the black hole shadow, and the size and the position of the black hole shadow depend on the spin. In these cases, when most of the emission comes from the vicinity of the event horizon, the light curves become asymmetric at ingress and egress. We next investigate the atmospheric absorption and scattering effects of the companion stars. By using the solar-type atmospheric model, we have taken into account the atmospheric effects of the companion star, such as the photoionization by HI and HeI. We found that the eclipsing light curves observed at 1 keV possibly contain the information of the black hole spin. However, in our atmospheric model, the effects of the atmosphere are much larger than the effects of the black hole spin. Therefore, even in the case that the light curves contain the information of the black hole spin, it may be difficult to extract the information of the black hole spin if we do not have the realistic atmospheric profiles, such as the temperature, and the number densities for several elements. Even in such cases, the light-curve asymmetries due to the rotation of the accretion disc exist. Only when we have the reliable atmospheric model, in principle, the information of the strong-gravity regions, such as the black hole spin, can be obtained from the eclipsing light curves. 
0704.02644	Joint universal lossy coding and identification of stationary mixing  sources	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Maxim Raginsky	 Abstract: The problem of joint universal source coding and modeling, treated in the context of lossless codes by Rissanen, was recently generalized to fixed-rate lossy coding of finitely parametrized continuous-alphabet i.i.d. sources. We extend these results to variable-rate lossy block coding of stationary ergodic sources and show that, for bounded metric distortion measures, any finitely parametrized family of stationary sources satisfying suitable mixing, smoothness and Vapnik-Chervonenkis learnability conditions admits universal schemes for joint lossy source coding and identification. We also give several explicit examples of parametric sources satisfying the regularity conditions. 
0704.02645	Unobservable Higgs Boson and Spontaneous Violation of Lorentz Invariance	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Noboru Nakanishi	 Abstract: The standard theory of elementary particle physics is modified in such a way that the Higgs boson becomes unobservable and Lorentz invariance is slightly violated at the level of the S-matrix. The basic technique of realizing these properties without violating the unitarity of the physical S-matrix is the use of the complex-ghost quantum field theory. 
0704.02646	On Multiplier Hermitian Structures on Compact Kahler Manifolds	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Qi Li	 Abstract: Mabuchi introduced multiplier Hermitian structures on compact Kahler manifolds and defined metrics similar to Kahler-Einstein metrics under these structures. In this note we generalize the inequality of Moser-Trudinger type on Kahler-Einstein manifolds to this case. 
0704.02647	High-Speed Cylindrical Collapse of Two Perfect Fluids	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:M. Sharif, Zahid Ahmad	 Abstract: In this paper, the study of the gravitational collapse of cylindrically distributed two perfect fluid system has been carried out. It is assumed that the collapsing speeds of the two fluids are very large. We explore this condition by using the high-speed approximation scheme. There arise two cases, i.e., bounded and vanishing of the ratios of the pressures with densities of two fluids given by $c_s, d_s$. It is shown that the high-speed approximation scheme breaks down by non-zero pressures $p_1, p_2$ when $c_s, d_s$ are bounded below by some positive constants. The failure of the high-speed approximation scheme at some particular time of the gravitational collapse suggests the uncertainity on the evolution at and after this time. In the bounded case, the naked singularity formation seems to be impossible for the cylindrical two perfect fluids. For the vanishing case, if a linear equation of state is used, the high-speed collapse does not break down by the effects of the pressures and consequently a naked singularity forms. This work provides the generalisation of the results already given by Nakao and Morisawa [1] for the perfect fluid. 
0704.02648	Prospects for making polar molecules with microwave fields	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Svetlana Kotochigova	 Abstract: We propose a new mechanism to produce ultracold polar molecules with microwave fields. The proposed mechanism converts trapped ultracold atoms of different species into vibrationally excited molecules by a single microwave transition and entirely depends on the existence of a permanent dipole moment in the molecules. As opposed to production of molecules by photoassociation or magnetic-field Feshbach resonances our method does not rely on the structure and lifetime of excited states or existence of Feshbach resonances. In addition, we determine conditions for optimal creation of polar molecules in vibrationally excited states of the ground-state potential by changing frequency and intensity of the microwave field. We also explore the possibility to produce vibrationally cold molecules by combining the microwave field with an optical Raman transition or by applying a microwave field to Feshbach molecules. The production mechanism is illustrated for two polar molecules: KRb and RbCs. 
0704.02649	Hedging our bets: the expected contribution of species to future  phylogenetic diversity	Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)	Authors:Mike Steel, Aki Mimoto, Arne O. Mooers	 Abstract: If predictions for species extinctions hold, then the `tree of life' today may be quite different to that in (say) 100 years. We describe a technique to quantify how much each species is likely to contribute to future biodiversity, as measured by its expected contribution to phylogenetic diversity. Our approach considers all possible scenarios for the set of species that will be extant at some future time, and weights them according to their likelihood under an independent (but not identical) distribution on species extinctions. Although the number of extinction scenarios can typically be very large, we show that there is a simple algorithm that will quickly compute this index. The method is implemented and applied to the prosimian primates as a test case, and the associated species ranking is compared to a related measure (the `Shapley index'). We describe indices for rooted and unrooted trees, and a modification that also includes the focal taxon's probability of extinction, making it directly comparable to some new conservation metrics. 
0704.02650	Proper path-factors and interval edge-coloring of (3,4)-biregular  bigraphs	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Armen S. Asratian (Linkoping University), Carl Johan Casselgren (Umea University), Jennifer Vandenbussche (University of Illinois), Douglas B. West (University of Illinois)	 Abstract: An interval coloring of a graph G is a proper coloring of E(G) by positive integers such that the colors on the edges incident to any vertex are consecutive. A (3,4)-biregular bigraph is a bipartite graph in which each vertex of one part has degree 3 and each vertex of the other has degree 4; it is unknown whether these all have interval colorings. We prove that G has an interval coloring using 6 colors when G is a (3,4)-biregular bigraph having a spanning subgraph whose components are paths with endpoints at 3-valent vertices and lengths in {2,4,6,8}. We provide sufficient conditions for the existence of such a subgraph. 
0704.02651	Opportunistic Communications in an Orthogonal Multiaccess Relay Channel	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Lalitha Sankar, Yingbin Liang, H. Vincent Poor, Narayan B. Mandayam	 Abstract: The problem of resource allocation is studied for a two-user fading orthogonal multiaccess relay channel (MARC) where both users (sources) communicate with a destination in the presence of a relay. A half-duplex relay is considered that transmits on a channel orthogonal to that used by the sources. The instantaneous fading state between every transmit-receive pair in this network is assumed to be known at both the transmitter and receiver. Under an average power constraint at each source and the relay, the sum-rate for the achievable strategy of decode-and-forward (DF) is maximized over all power allocations (policies) at the sources and relay. It is shown that the sum-rate maximizing policy exploits the multiuser fading diversity to reveal the optimality of opportunistic channel use by each user. A geometric interpretation of the optimal power policy is also presented. 
0704.02652	Observation of the Decay \bar{B0}-> Ds+ Lambda \bar{p}	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:T. Medvedeva, R. Chistov, et al, for the Belle Collaboration	 Abstract: We report the first observation of the decay \bar{B0} -> D_s^+ Lambda \bar{p} with a statistical significance of 6.6 sigma. We measure Br(\bar{B0} -> Ds+ Lambda \bar{p}) = (2.9 \pm 0.7\pm 0.5 \pm 0.4)* 10^{-5}, where the first error is statistical, the second is systematic and the third error comes fr\om the uncertainty in Br(Ds+ -> phi pi+). The data used for this analysis was accumulated at the Upsilon(4S) resonance, using the Belle detector at the KEKB asymmetric-energy e+e- collider. The integrated luminosity of the data sample is 414 fb-1, corresponding to 449*10^{6} B{\bar B} pairs. 
0704.02653	Investigation of Neutron--Deuteron Charge-Exchange Reaction at Small  Transfer Momentum	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:N.B. Ladygina	 Abstract: Analysis of the $nd\to p(nn)$ reaction in a GeV-energy region is performed in the framework based on the multiple-scattering theory for the few-nucleon system. The special kinematic condition, when momentum transfer from neutron beam to final proton closes to zero, is considered. The possibility to extract the spin-dependent term of the elementary $np\to pn $ amplitude from $nd$-breakup process is investigated. The energy dependence of the ratio $R=\frac{d\sigma_{nd}} {d\Omega} / \frac{d\sigma_{np}}{d\Omega}$ is obtained taking account of the final-state interaction of the two outgoing neutrons in $^1 S_0$-state. 
0704.02654	Phase structure, collective modes, and the axial anomaly in dense QCD	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Naoki Yamamoto, Motoi Tachibana, Tetsuo Hatsuda, Gordon Baym	 Abstract: Using a general Ginzburg-Landau effective Lagrangian, we study the topological structure and low-lying collective modes of dense QCD having both chiral and diquark condensates, for two and three massless flavors. As we found earlier, the QCD axial anomaly acts as an external field applied to the chiral condensate in a color superconductor and, as a new critical point emerges, leads to a crossover between the broken chiral symmetry and color superconducting phases. At intermediate densities where both chiral and diquark condensates are present, we derive a generalized Gell-Mann- Oakes-Renner relation between the masses of pseudoscalar bosons and the magnitude of the chiral and diquark-condensates. We show explicitly the continuity of the ordinary pion at low densities to a generalized pion at high densities. 
0704.02655	658 GHz Vibrationally-Excited Water Masers with the Submillimeter Array	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T.R. Hunter, K.H. Young, R.D. Christensen, M.A. Gurwell	 Abstract: Discovered in 1995 at the Caltech Submillimeter Observatory (CSO), the vibrationally-excited water maser line at 658 GHz (455 micron) is seen in oxygen-rich giant and supergiant stars. Because this maser can be so strong (up to thousands of Janskys), it was very helpful during the commissioning phase of the highest frequency band (620-700 GHz) of the Submillimeter Array (SMA) interferometer. From late 2002 to early 2006, brief attempts were made to search for emission from additional sources beyond the original CSO survey. These efforts have expanded the source count from 10 to 16. The maser emission appears to be quite compact spatially, as expected from theoretical considerations; thus these objects can potentially be used as atmospheric phase calibrators. Many of these objects also exhibit maser emission in the vibrationally-excited SiO maser at 215 GHz. Because both maser lines likely originate from a similar physical region, these objects can be used to test techniques of phase transfer calibration between millimeter and submillimeter bands. The 658 GHz masers will be important beacons to assess the performance of the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA) in this challenging high-frequency band. 
0704.02656	Couplings between a collection of BF models and a set of three-form  gauge fields	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:C. Bizdadea, E. M. Cioroianu, S. C. Sararu	 Abstract: Consistent interactions that can be added to a free, Abelian gauge theory comprising a collection of BF models and a set of three-form gauge fields are constructed from the deformation of the solution to the master equation based on specific cohomological techniques. Under the hypotheses of smooth, local, PT invariant, Lorentz covariant, and Poincare invariant interactions, supplemented with the requirement on the preservation of the number of derivatives on each field with respect to the free theory, we obtain that the deformation procedure modifies the Lagrangian action, the gauge transformations as well as the accompanying algebra. 
0704.02657	The integral equation approach to kinematic dynamo theory and its  application to dynamo experiments in cylindrical geometry	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Mingtian Xu, Frank Stefani, Gunter Gerbeth	 Abstract: The conventional magnetic induction equation that governs hydromagnetic dynamo action is transformed into an equivalent integral equation system. An advantage of this approach is that the computational domain is restricted to the region occupied by the electrically conducting fluid and to its boundary. This integral equation approach is first employed to simulate kinematic dynamos excited by Beltrami-like flows in a finite cylinder. The impact of externally added layers around the cylinder on the onset of dynamo actions is investigated. Then it is applied to simulate dynamo experiments within cylindrical geometry including the von Karman sodium (VKS) experiment and the Riga dynamo experiment. A modified version of this approach is utilized to investigate magnetic induction effects under the influence of externally applied magnetic fields which is also important to measure the proximity of a given dynamo facility to the self-excitation threshold. 
0704.02658	No cross-interactions between the Weyl graviton and the massless  Rarita-Schwinger field	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:C. Bizdadea, E. M. Cioroianu, A. C. Lungu, S. C. Sararu	 Abstract: The proof of the fact that there are no nontrivial, consistent cross-couplings that can be added between the Weyl graviton and the massless Rarita-Schwinger field is accomplished by means of a cohomological approach, based on the deformation of the solution to the master equation from the antifield-Becchi-Rouet-Stora-Tyutin (BRST) formalism. The procedure developed here relies on the assumptions of locality, smoothness, (background) Lorentz invariance, Poincare invariance, and preservation of the number of derivatives with respect to each field (the last hypothesis was made only in antighost number zero). 
0704.02659	Minimum Expected Distortion in Gaussian Layered Broadcast Coding with  Successive Refinement	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Chris T. K. Ng, Deniz Gunduz, Andrea J. Goldsmith, Elza Erkip	 Abstract: A transmitter without channel state information (CSI) wishes to send a delay-limited Gaussian source over a slowly fading channel. The source is coded in superimposed layers, with each layer successively refining the description in the previous one. The receiver decodes the layers that are supported by the channel realization and reconstructs the source up to a distortion. In the limit of a continuum of infinite layers, the optimal power distribution that minimizes the expected distortion is given by the solution to a set of linear differential equations in terms of the density of the fading distribution. In the optimal power distribution, as SNR increases, the allocation over the higher layers remains unchanged; rather the extra power is allocated towards the lower layers. On the other hand, as the bandwidth ratio b (channel uses per source symbol) tends to zero, the power distribution that minimizes expected distortion converges to the power distribution that maximizes expected capacity. While expected distortion can be improved by acquiring CSI at the transmitter (CSIT) or by increasing diversity from the realization of independent fading paths, at high SNR the performance benefit from diversity exceeds that from CSIT, especially when b is large. 
0704.02660	Competing superfluid and density-wave ground-states of fermionic  mixtures with mass imbalance in optical lattices	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Tung-Lam Dao, Antoine Georges, Massimo Capone	 Abstract: We study the effect of mass imbalance on the phase diagram of a two-component fermionic mixture with attractive interactions in optical lattices. Using static and dynamical mean-field theories, we show that the pure superfluid phase is stable for all couplings when the mass imbalance is smaller than a limiting value. For larger imbalance, phase separation between a superfluid and a charge-density wave takes place when the coupling exceeds a critical strength. The harmonic trap induces a spatial segregation of the two phases, with a rapid variation of the density at the boundary. 
0704.02661	Application of the equal dissipation rate principle to automatic  generation of strut-and-tie models	Optimization and Control (math.OC)	Authors:Balthasar Novak, Sergey Ananiev	 Abstract: This work presents an extended formulation of maximal stiffness design, within the framework of the topology optimization. The mathematical formulation of the optimization problem is based on the postulated principle of equal dissipation rate during inelastic deformation. This principle leads to the enforcement of stress constraints in domains where inelastic deformation would occur. During the transition from the continuous structure to the truss-like one (strut-and-tie model) the dissipation rate is kept constant using the projected gradient method. The equal dissipation rate in the resulting truss and in the original continuous structure can be regarded as an equivalence statement and suggests an alternative understanding of physical motivation behind the strut-and-tie modeling. The performance of the proposed formulation is demonstrated with the help of two examples. 
0704.02662	Plastic-damage model for concrete in principal directions	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Sergey Ananiev, Josko Ozbolt	 Abstract: In the present paper a plastic-damage model for concrete is discussed. Based on the fact that for isotropic materials the elastic trial stress and the projected plastic stress states have the same eigenvec-tors, the loading surface is formulated in the principal stress space rather than using the invariants of stress tensor. The model assumes that the directions of orthotropic damage coincide with principal directions of elastic predictor stress state (motivated by coaxial rotated crack model). Due to this assumption, the load-ing surface and the closest point projection algorithm can still be formulated in the principal directions. The evolution of the inelastic strain is determined using minimization principle. Damage and plastic parts of the inelastic strain are separated using a scalar parameter, which is assumed to be stress dependent. The paper also discusses an effective numerical implementation. The performance of the model is demonstrated on one illustrative example. 
0704.02663	Scalar damage model for concrete without explicit evolution law	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Josko Ozbolt, Sergey Ananiev	 Abstract: Based on the fact that for an isotropic material model the elastic predictor and the projected stress tensors have the same eigenvectors, it is shown that the scalar damage can be obtained directly from the projection algorithm. This eliminates the difficulty of a proper definition of equivalent strain which serves as a driving force for evolution of damage in concrete. Moreover, if eigenvectors are known it is not more nec-essary to use invariants of the stress tensor for the formulation of loading surface. In the present model the loading surface is represented in the polynomial form. This has two advantages: (i) it automatically fulfils C1 continuity and (ii) plane stress formulation is achieved by simply setting the third stress to zero. The perform-ance of the model is illustrated on example of a mixed-mode fracture of concrete. It is shown that for the pre-sent example the model prediction strongly depends on the choice of the stress degradation law. 
0704.02664	A Wegner estimate for multi-particle random Hamiltonians	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Werner Kirsch	 Abstract: We prove a Wegner estimate for a large class of multiparticle Anderson Hamiltonians on the lattice. These estimates will allow us to prove Anderson localization for such systems. A detailed proof of localization will be given in a subsequent paper. 
0704.02665	Local quantum mechanics with finite Planck mass	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:M Kozlowski, J. Marciak -Kozlowska, M.pelc	 Abstract: In this paper the motion of quantum particles with initial mass m is investigated. The quantum mechanics equation is formulated and solved. It is shown that the wave function contains the component which is depended on the gravitation fine structure constant 
0704.02666	D-brane superpotentials and RG flows on the quintic	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Marco Baumgartl, Ilka Brunner, Matthias R. Gaberdiel	 Abstract: The behaviour of D2-branes on the quintic under complex structure deformations is analysed by combining Landau-Ginzburg techniques with methods from conformal field theory. It is shown that the boundary renormalisation group flow induced by the bulk deformations is realised as a gradient flow of the effective space time superpotential which is calculated explicitly to all orders in the boundary coupling constant. 
0704.02667	Wormholes as Black Hole Foils	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Thibault Damour, Sergey N. Solodukhin	 Abstract: We study to what extent wormholes can mimic the observational features of black holes. It is surprisingly found that many features that could be thought of as ``characteristic'' of a black hole (endowed with an event horizon) can be closely mimicked by a globally static wormhole, having no event horizon. This is the case for: the apparently irreversible accretion of matter down a hole, no-hair properties, quasi-normal-mode ringing, and even the dissipative properties of black hole horizons, such as a finite surface resistivity equal to 377 Ohms. The only way to distinguish the two geometries on an observationally reasonable time scale would be through the detection of Hawking's radiation, which is, however, too weak to be of practical relevance for astrophysical black holes. We point out the existence of an interesting spectrum of quantum microstates trapped in the throat of a wormhole which could be relevant for storing the information ``lost'' during a gravitational collapse. 
0704.02668	Supervised Feature Selection via Dependence Estimation	Learning (cs.LG)	Authors:Le Song, Alex Smola, Arthur Gretton, Karsten Borgwardt, Justin Bedo	 Abstract: We introduce a framework for filtering features that employs the Hilbert-Schmidt Independence Criterion (HSIC) as a measure of dependence between the features and the labels. The key idea is that good features should maximise such dependence. Feature selection for various supervised learning problems (including classification and regression) is unified under this framework, and the solutions can be approximated using a backward-elimination algorithm. We demonstrate the usefulness of our method on both artificial and real world datasets. 
0704.02669	Effect of premelting on conductivity of DNA-lipid films	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:A.Yu. Kasumov, S. Nakamae, M. Cazayous, T. Kawasaki, Y. Okahata	 Abstract: We have measured temperature dependent (between 20 and 80 C) electrical conductivity and molecular structure (Raman spectroscopy) of DNA-lipid cast film. Our findings show that the conductivity is strongly influenced by premelting effects in the molecular structure starting near physiological temperatures (~40 C), prior to the global DNA denaturation. 
0704.02670	D.E.U.S. (Dimension Embedded in Unified Symmetry)	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Adrian Sabin Popescu	 Abstract: An unified model of the Universe, Black Holes, particles .... and beyond. 
0704.02671	Correlation of macroscopic instability and Lyapunov times in the general  three-body problem	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Seppo Mikkola, Kiyotaka Tanikawa	 Abstract: We conducted extensive numerical experiments of equal mass three-body systems until they became disrupted. The system lifetimes, as a bound triple, and the Lyapunov times show a correlation similarto what has been earlier obtained for small bodies in the Solar System. Numerical integrations of several sets of differently randomised initial conditions produced the same relationship of the instability time and Lyapunov time. Marginal probability densities of the various times in the three-body experiments are also discussed. Our high accuracy numerical method for three-body orbit computations and Lyapunov time determinations is concisely described. 
0704.02672	Study of B+ to p Lambdabar gamma, p Lambdabar pi0 and B0 to p Lambdabar  pi-	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:M.-Z. Wang, Y.-J. Lee, et al, for the Belle Collaboration	 Abstract: We study the charmless baryonic three-body decays of B mesons: B+ to p Lambdabar gamma, B+ to p Lambdabar pi0 and B0 to p Lambdabar pi-. The partial branching fractions as a function of the baryon-antibaryon mass and the polar angle distributions of the proton in the baryon-antibaryon system are presented. This study includes the first observation of B+ to p Lambdabar pi0, which is measured to have a branching fraction of (3.00^{+0.61}_{-0.53}\pm 0.33) times 10^{-6}. We also set upper limits on branching fractions of the two-body decays B0 to p Sigmabar^{*-}, B0 to Delta^0 Lambdabar, B+ to p Sigmabar^{*0}, and B+ to Delta^+ Lambdabar at the 90% confidence level. These results are obtained from a 414fb^{-1} data sample collected near the Upsilon(4S) resonance with the Belle detector at the KEKB asymmetric-energy e+ e- collider. 
0704.02673	Chiral symmetry and the string description of excited hadrons	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:L. Ya. Glozman (Univ. Graz), A. V. Nefediev (ITEP, Moscow)	 Abstract: A large symmetry group is perhaps experimentally observed in excited hadrons which includes the chiral group U(2)_L x U(2)_R as a subgroup. To possess this large symmetry a dynamical model for excited hadrons, presumably a string model, should explain formation of chiral multiplets and, at the same time, predict coinciding slopes of the angular and radial Regge trajectories. This is possible only if both the dynamics of the string and the chirality of the quarks at the ends of the string are considered together. We construct a model-independent unitary transformation from the relativistic chiral basis to the ^{2S+1}L_J basis, commonly used in hadronic phenomenology as well as in the string models, and demonstrate that a hadron belonging to the given chiral representation is a fixed superposition of the basis vectors with different L's and S's. Thus the description of highly excited hadron in terms of a fixed L is not compatible with chiral symmetry and has to be disregarded in favour of the description in terms of the total hadron spin J. Therefore, dynamics of the string must deliver the principal quantum number ~n+J, in order chiral multiplets with different spins to become degenerate, as required by the large symmetry group. 
0704.02674	First integrals for non linear hyperbolic equations	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Dikanaina Harrivel, Fréderic Hélein	 Abstract: Given a solution of a nonlinear wave equation on the flat space-time (with a real analytic nonlinearity), we relate its Cauchy data at two different times by nonlinear representation formulas in terms of asymptotic series. We first show how to construct formally these series by mean of generating functions based on an algebraic framework inspired by the construction of Fock spaces in quantum field theory. Then we build an analytic setting in which all these constructions really make sense and give rise to convergent series. 
0704.02675	The isospin symmetry breaking effects in $K_{e4}$ decays	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:S.R.Gevorkyan, A.N.Sissakian, A.V.Tarasov, H.T.Torosyan, O.O.Voskresenskaya	 Abstract: The Fermi-Watson theorem is generalized to the case of two coupled channels with different masses and applied to final state interaction in $K_{e4}$ decays. The impact of considered effect on the phase of the $\pi\pi$ scattering is estimated and shown that it can be crucial for scattering lengths extraction from experimental data on $K_{e4}$ decays. 
0704.02676	CP Violation Studies at Tevatron	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:E. Ben-Haim (LPNHE)	 Abstract: We present an overview of a few recent results related to CP-violation from the Tevatron. First, we discuss a measurement of the dimuon charge asymmetry from D{\O}that extracts the CP-violation parameter of $\Bo$ mixing and decay. This is followed by the CDF measurement of the CP-violating asymmetry in $\bdkpi$ decays. Finally we give the CDF result on the ratio $R = \frac{BR(B \to D^0 K)}{BR(B \to D^0 \pi)}$ 
0704.02677	Entanglement induced Sub-Planck structures	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Jitesh R. Bhatt, Prasanta K. Panigrahi, Manan Vyas	 Abstract: We study Wigner function of a system describing entanglement of two cat-states. Quantum interferece arising due to entanglement is shown to produce sub-Planck structures in the phase-space plots of the Wigner function. Origin of these structures in our case depends on entanglement unlike those in Zurek \cite{Zurek}. It is argued that the entangled cat-states are better suited for carrying out precision measurements. 
0704.02678	X-ray and Sunyaev-Zel'dovich scaling relations in galaxy clusters	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Morandi, S. Ettori, L. Moscardini	 Abstract: [Abridged] We present an analysis of the scaling relations between X-ray properties and Sunyaev-Zel'dovich (SZ) parameters for a sample of 24 X-ray luminous galaxy clusters observed with Chandra and with measured SZ effect. These objects are in the redshift range 0.14--0.82 and have X-ray bolometric luminosity L>10^45 erg/s. We perform a spatially resolved spectral analysis and recover the density, temperature and pressure profiles of the ICM, just relying on the spherical symmetry of the cluster and the hydrostatic equilibrium hypothesis. We observe that the correlations among X-ray quantities only are in agreement with previous results obtained for samples of high-z X-ray luminous galaxy clusters. On the relations involving SZ quantities, we obtain that they correlate with the gas temperature with a logarithmic slope significantly larger than the predicted value from the self-similar model. The measured scatter indicates, however, that the central Compton parameter y_0 is a proxy of the gas temperature at the same level of other X-ray quantities like luminosity. Our results on the X-ray and SZ scaling relations show a tension between the quantities more related to the global energy of the system (e.g. gas temperature, gravitating mass) and the indicators of the structure of the ICM (e.g. gas density profile, central Compton parameter y_0), showing the most significant deviations from the values of the slope predicted from the self-similar model in the L-T, L-M_{tot}, M_{gas}-T, y_0-T relations. When the slope is fixed to the self-similar value, these relations consistently show a negative evolution suggesting a scenario in which the ICM at higher redshift has lower both X-ray luminosity and pressure in the central regions than the expectations from self-similar model. 
0704.02679	On the Applications of a New Technique to Solve Linear Differential  Equations, with and without Source	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:N. Gurappa, Pankaj K. Jha, Prasanta K. Panigrahi	 Abstract: A general method for solving linear differential equations of arbitrary order, is used to arrive at new representations for the solutions of the known differential equations, both without and with a source term. A new quasi-solvable potential has also been constructed taking recourse to the above method. 
0704.02680	A Channel that Heats Up	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Tobias Koch, Amos Lapidoth, Paul P. Sotiriadis	 Abstract: Motivated by on-chip communication, a channel model is proposed where the variance of the additive noise depends on the weighted sum of the past channel input powers. For this channel, an expression for the capacity per unit cost is derived, and it is shown that the expression holds also in the presence of feedback. 
0704.02681	Cool objects: From SED fitting to age estimation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Bayo, D. Barrado y Navascues, M. Morales-Calderon, E. Solano, C. Rodrigo, R. Gutierrez, F. Allard	 Abstract: The physical properties of almost any kind of astronomical object can be derived by fitting synthetic spectra or photometry extracted from theoretical models to observational data. This process usually involves working with multiwavelength data, which is one of the cornerstones of the VO philosophy. From this kind of studies, when combining with theoretical isochrones one can even estimate ages. We present here the results obtained from a code designed to perform chi^2 tests to both spectroscopic models (or the associated synthetic photometry) and combinations of blackbodies (including modified blackbodies). Some steps in this process can already be done in a VO environment, and the rest are in the process of development. We must note that this kind of studies in star forming regions, clusters, etc. produce a huge amount of data, very tedious to analyze using the traditional methodology. This make them excellent examples where to apply the VO capabilities. 
0704.02682	Electron-electron correlation in graphite	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:A. Gruneis, C. Attaccalite, T. Pichler, V. Zabolotnyy, H. Shiozawa, S.L. Molodtsov, D. Inosov, A. Koitzsch, M. Knupfer, J. Schiessling, R. Follath, R. Weber, P. Rudolf, L. Wirtz, A. Rubio	 Abstract: The full three dimensional dispersion of the pi-bands, Fermi velocities and effective masses are measured with angle resolved photoemission spectroscopy and compared to first-principles calculations. The band structure by density-functional theory strongly underestimates the slope of the bands and the trigonal warping effect. Including electron-electron calculation on the level of the GW approximation, however, yields remarkable agreement in the vicinity of the Fermi level. This demonstrates the breakdown of the independent electron picture in semi-metallic graphite and points towards a pronounced role of electron correlation for the interpretation of transport experiments and double-resonant Raman scattering for a wide range of carbon based materials. 
0704.02683	A relativistic gauge theory of nonlinear quantum mechanics and Newtonian  gravity	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Hans-Thomas Elze	 Abstract: A new kind of gauge theory is introduced, where the minimal coupling and corresponding covariant derivatives are defined in the space of functions pertaining to the functional Schroedinger picture of a given field theory. While, for simplicity, we study the example of a U(1) symmetry, this kind of gauge theory can accommodate other symmetries as well. We consider the resulting relativistic nonlinear extension of quantum mechanics and show that it incorporates gravity in the (0+1)-dimensional limit, similar to recently studied Schroedinger-Newton equations. Gravity is encoded here into a universal nonlinear extension of quantum theory. A probabilistic interpretation (Born's rule) holds, provided the underlying model is scale free. Keywords: nonlinear functional Schroedinger equation, gauge symmetry, Newtonian gravity. 
0704.02684	Effects of Lepton Flavour Violation on Chargino Production at the Linear  Collider	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Karl Hohenwarter-Sodek, Thomas Kernreiter	 Abstract: We study the effects of lepton flavour violation (LFV) on the production processes e+e- --> \chi+_i \chi-_j at a linear collider with longitudinal e+ and e- beam polarizations. In the case of LFV the sneutrino mass eigenstates have no definite flavour, therefore, in the t-channel more than one sneutrino mass eigenstate can contribute to the chargino production cross sections. Our framework is the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM) including LFV terms. We show that in spite of the restrictions on the LFV parameters due to the current limits on rare lepton decays, the cross section \sigma(e+e- --> \chi+_1 \chi-_1) can change by a factor of 2 or more when varying the LFV mixing angles. We point out that even if the present bound on BR(tau- --> e- gamma) improves by a factor of thousand the influence of LFV on the chargino production cross section can be significant. These results could have an important impact on the strategies for determining the underlying model parameters at the linear collider. 
0704.02685	PdBI sub-arcsecond study of the SiO microjet in HH212 - Origin and  collimation of Class 0 jets	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Cabrit, C. Codella, F. Gueth, B. Nisini, A. Gusdorf, C. Dougados, F. Bacciotti	 Abstract: The bipolar HH 212 outflow has been mapped in SiO using the extended configuration of the Plateau de Bure Interferometer (PdBI), revealing a highly collimated SiO jet closely associated with the H2 jet component. We study at unprecedented resolution (0.34" across the jet axis) the properties of the innermost SiO ``microjet'' within 1000 AU of this young Class 0 source, to compare it with atomic microjets from more evolved sources and to constrain its origin. The SiO channel maps are used to investigate the microjet collimation and velocity structure. A large velocity gradient analysis is applied to SiO (2-1), (5-4) and (8-7) data from the PdBI and the Submillimeter Array to constrain the SiO opacity and abundance. The HH212 Class 0 microjet shows striking similarities in collimation and energetic budget with atomic microjets from T Tauri sources. Furthermore, the SiO lines appear optically thick, unlike what is generally assumed. We infer T(kin) ~ 50-500 K and an SiO/H2 abundance greater than 4 10(-8)-6 10(-5) for n(H2) = 10(7)-10(5) cm(-3), i.e. 0.05-90% of the elemental silicon. This similar jet width, regardless of the presence of a dense envelope, definitely rules out jet collimation by external pressure, and favors a common MHD self-collimation (and possibly acceleration) process at all stages of star formation. We propose that the more abundant SiO in Class 0 jets could mainly result from rapid (less than 25 yrs) molecular synthesis at high jet densities. 
0704.02686	Self-organization processes in laser system with nonlinear absorber and  external force influence	Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO)	Authors:E.D.Belokolos, V.O.Kharchenko	 Abstract: We discuss mechanisms of self-organization processes in two-level solid-state class-B laser system. The model is considered under assumptions of influence of nonlinear absorber and external force, separately. It was found that self-organization occurs through the Hopf bifurcation and results to a stable pulse radiation. Analysis is performed according to the Floquet exponent investigation. It was found that influence of the nonlinear absorber extends the domain of control parameters that manage a stable periodic radiation processes. An external force suppresses self-organization processes. A combined influence of both external force and nonlinear absorber results to more complicated picture of self-organization with two reentrant Hopf bifurcations. 
0704.02687	Equilibrium and absolute minimal states of Mumford-Shah functionals and  brittle fracture propagation	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Marius Buliga	 Abstract: By a combination of geometrical and configurational analysis we study the properties of absolute minimal and equilibrium states of general Mumford-Shah functionals, with applications to models of quasistatic brittle fracture propagation. The main results concern the mathematical relations between physical quantities as energy release rate and energy concentration for 3D cracks with complex shapes, seen as outer measures living on the crack edge. 
0704.02688	Classification of line-transitive point-imprimitive linear spaces with  line size at most 12	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Cheryl E. Praeger, Shenglin Zhou	 Abstract: In this paper we complete a classification of finite linear spaces $\cS$ with line size at most 12 admitting a line-transitive point-imprimitive subgroup of automorphisms. The examples are the Desarguesian projective planes of orders $4,7, 9$ and 11, two designs on 91 points with line size 6, and 467 designs on 729 points with line size 8. 
0704.02689	Mass loss from Luminous Blue Variables and Quasi-Periodic Modulations of  Radio Supernovae	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jorick S. Vink, Rubina Kotak	 Abstract: Massive stars, supernovae (SNe), and long-duration gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) have a huge impact on their environment. Despite their importance, a comprehensive knowledge of which massive stars produce which SN/GRB is hitherto lacking. We present a brief overview about our knowledge of mass loss in the Hertzsprung-Russell Diagram (HRD) covering evolutionary phases of the OB main sequence, the unstable Luminous Blue Variable (LBV) stage, and the Wolf-Rayet (WR) phase. Despite the fact that metals produced by ``self-enrichment'' in WR atmospheres exceed the initial -- host galaxy -- metallicity, by orders of magnitude, a particularly strong dependence of the mass-loss rate on the initial metallicity is found for WR stars at sub-solar metallicities (1/10 -- 1/100 solar). This provides a significant boost to the collapsar model for GRBs, as it may present a viable mechanism to prevent the loss of angular momentum by stellar winds at low metallicity, whilst strong Galactic WR winds may inhibit GRBs occurring at solar metallicities. Furthermore, we discuss recently reported quasi-sinusoidal modulations in the radio lightcurves of SNe 2001ig and 2003bg. We show that both the sinusoidal behaviour and the recurrence timescale of these modulations are consistent with the predicted mass-loss behaviour of LBVs, and we suggest LBVs may be the progenitors of some core-collapse SNe. 
0704.02690	Constraining GRB progenitor models by probing Wolf-Rayet wind geometries  in the Large Magellanic Cloud	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jorick S. Vink (Armagh Observatory)	 Abstract: The favoured progenitors of long-duration gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) are rapidly rotating Wolf-Rayet (WR) stars. However, most Galactic WR stars are slow rotators, as stellar winds are thought to remove angular momentum. This poses a challenge to the collapsar model. Recent observations indicate that GRBs occur predominately in low metallicity (Z) environments, which may resolve the problem: lower Z leads to less mass loss, which may inhibit angular momentum removal, allowing WR stars to remain rotating rapidly until collapse. We wish to determine whether low Z WR stars rotate on average more rapidly than Galactic WR stars, and perform a Very Large Telescope (VLT) linear spectropolarimetry survey of WR stars in the low Z environment of the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) and compare our results with the Galactic sample. We find that only 2 out of 13 (i.e. 15%) of LMC WR stars show line polarization effects, compared to a similarly low fraction of ~15-20% for Galactic WR stars. The low incidence of line polarization effects in LMC WR stars suggests that the threshold metallicity where significant differences in WR rotational properties occur is below that of the LMC (Z ~ 0.5 Zsun), possibly constraining GRB progenitor channels to this upper metallicity. 
0704.02691	Thin Lead Titanate films grown by Molecular Beam Epitaxy	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Gijsbert Rispens, Beatriz Noheda	 Abstract: The growth of atomically-flat thin films of ferroelectric PbTiO3 on SrTiO3 substrates, using molecular beam epitaxy, is reported. The main issue in the growth of these materials is the high volatility of lead. This can be largely overcome by using PbO, instead of Pb, as a source and by using atomic oxygen during growth. The continuous decrease of the out-of-plane lattice parameter with increasing temperature in the investigated range, indicates that PbTiO3 is still ferroelectric at the growth temperature (Tg= 600oC), which agrees with the theoretical prediction of TC= 765oC (compared to TCbulk= 490oC) for the present mismatch strain values. 
0704.02692	Quantisations of piecewise affine maps on the torus and their quantum  limits	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Cheng-Hung Chang, Tyll Krueger, Roman Schubert, Serge Troubetzkoy (CPT, FRUMAM, IML)	 Abstract: For general quantum systems the semiclassical behaviour of eigenfunctions in relation to the ergodic properties of the underlying classical system is quite difficult to understand. The Wignerfunctions of eigenstates converge weakly to invariant measures of the classical system, the so called quantum limits, and one would like to understand which invariant measures can occur that way, thereby classifying the semiclassical behaviour of eigenfunctions. We introduce a class of maps on the torus for whose quantisations we can understand the set of quantum limits in great detail. In particular we can construct examples of ergodic maps which have singular ergodic measures as quantum limits, and examples of non-ergodic maps where arbitrary convex combinations of absolutely continuous ergodic measures can occur as quantum limits. The maps we quantise are obtained by cutting and stacking. 
0704.02693	GREGOR: the New German Solar Telescope	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:H. Balthasar, O. von der Lühe, F. Kneer, J. Staude, R. Volkmer, T. Berkefeld, P. Caligari, M. Collados, C. Halbgewachs, F. Heidecke, A. Hofmann, M. Klvana, H. Nicklas, E. Popow, K. Puschmann, W. Schmidt, M. Sobotka, D. Soltau, K. Strassmeier, A. Wittmann	 Abstract: GREGOR is a new open solar telescope with an aperture of 1.5m. It replaces the former 45-cm Gregory Coude telescope on the Canary island Tenerife. The optical concept is that of a double Gregory system. The main and the elliptical mirrors are made from a silicon-carbide material with high thermal conductivity. This is important to keep the mirrors on the ambient temperature avoiding local turbulence. GREGOR will be equipped with an adaptive optics system. The new telescope will be ready for operation in 2008. Post-focus instruments in the first stage will be a spectrograph for polarimetry in the near infrared and a 2-dimensional spectrometer based on Fabry-Perot interferometers for the visible. 
0704.02694	Determining factors behind the PageRank log-log plot	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Yana Volkovich, Nelly Litvak, Debora Donato	 Abstract: We study the relation between PageRank and other parameters of information networks such as in-degree, out-degree, and the fraction of dangling nodes. We model this relation through a stochastic equation inspired by the original definition of PageRank. Further, we use the theory of regular variation to prove that PageRank and in-degree follow power laws with the same exponent. The difference between these two power laws is in a multiple coefficient, which depends mainly on the fraction of dangling nodes, average in-degree, the power law exponent, and damping factor. The out-degree distribution has a minor effect, which we explicitly quantify. Our theoretical predictions show a good agreement with experimental data on three different samples of the Web. 
0704.02695	Electronic structure of barium titanate : an abinitio DFT study	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Hong-Jian Feng, Fa-Min Liu	 Abstract: First principle calculations were performed to study the ground state electronic properties of Barium titanate within the density functional theory (DFT). In our DFT computations, we used Vosko-Wilk-Nusair correlation energy functional and generalized gradient approximation (GGA) exchange and correlation energy functional as suggested by Perdew and Wang (PWGGA). The band structure, total density of states (DOS) and partial DOS have been systematically conducted to investigate the electronic configuration of this prototype ferroelectric perovskits compound. The band gap was 1.92 eV within our approach, and the quasi-flat band at -17 eV and -10 eV were attributed to the O 2s and Ba 5p states respectively, which was in good agreement with the corresponding total DOS and partial DOS. From the DOS investigation, it can be seen that the Ti eg state intended to interact with the oxygen octahedral orbitals to form the p-d hybridization. Moreover the strong p-d overlap and bonding can be observed in the electronic density redistribution along the different crystalline planes with respect to the corresponding space group, and the electronic isodense have been shown along the (001), (100), (110) and (111) crystal planes. From these electronic density maps, the strong bonding between Ti and O atoms can even be observed in the (111) crystalline plane. 
0704.02696	Classification of Supersymmetric Lattice Gauge Theories by Orbifolding	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:Poul H. Damgaard, So Matsuura	 Abstract: We provide a general classification of supersymmetric lattice gauge theories that can be obtained from orbifolding of theories with four and eight supercharges. We impose at least one preserved supercharge on the lattice and Lorentz invariance in the naive continuum limit. Starting with four supercharges, we obtain one two-dimensional lattice gauge theory, identical to the one already given in the literature. Starting with eight supercharges, we obtain a unique three-dimensional lattice gauge theory and infinitely many two-dimensional lattice theories. They can be classified according to seven distinct groups, five of which have two preserved supercharges while the others have only one. 
0704.02697	On matrix type corings, algebra coverings and Cech cohomology	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Andrzej Sitarz	 Abstract: We investigate the a matrix-type coring associated to a complete covering of an algebra, its Amitsur complex and propose a definition for the related Cech cohomology relative to the covering. 
0704.02698	The 1 keV to 200 keV X-ray Spectrum of NGC 2992 and NGC 3081	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Volker Beckmann (1), Neil Gehrels (2), Jack Tueller (2) ((1) INTEGRAL Science Data Centre, (2) NASA/GSFC)	 Abstract: The Seyfert 2 galaxies NGC 2992 and NGC 3081 have been observed by INTEGRAL and Swift. We report about the results and the comparison of the spectrum above 10 keV based on INTEGRAL IBIS/ISGRI, Swift/BAT, and BeppoSAX/PDS. A spectrum can be extracted in the X-ray energy band ranging from 1 keV up to 200 keV. Although NGC 2992 shows a complex spectrum below 10 keV, the hard tail observed by various missions exhibits a slope with photon index = 2, independent on the flux level during the observation. No cut-off is detectable up to the detection limit around 200 keV. In addition, NGC 3081 is detected in the INTEGRAL and Swift observation and also shows an unbroken Gamma = 1.8 spectrum up to 150 keV. These two Seyfert galaxies give further evidence that a high-energy cut-off in the hard X-ray spectra is often located at energies E_C >> 100 keV. In NGC 2992 a constant spectral shape is observed over a hard X-ray luminosity variation by a factor of 11. This might indicate that the physical conditions of the emitting hot plasma are constant, while the amount of plasma varies, due to long-term flaring activity. 
0704.02699	Uncovering the topology of configuration space networks	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:David Gfeller (1), Paolo De Los Rios (1), David Morton de Lachapelle (1), Guido Caldarelli (2,3), Francesco Rao (3) ((1) EPFL Lausanne Switzerland, (2) SMC CNR-INFM Rome Italy, (3) Centro Fermi Rome Italy)	 Abstract: The configuration space network (CSN) of a dynamical system is an effective approach to represent the ensemble of configurations sampled during a simulation and their dynamic connectivity. To elucidate the connection between the CSN topology and the underlying free-energy landscape governing the system dynamics and thermodynamics, an analytical soluti on is provided to explain the heavy tail of the degree distribution, neighbor co nnectivity and clustering coefficient. This derivation allows to understand the universal CSN network topology observed in systems ranging from a simple quadratic well to the native state of the beta3s peptide and a 2D lattice heteropolymer. Moreover CSN are shown to fall in the general class of complex networks describe d by the fitness model. 
0704.02700	The aqueous and crystalline forms of L-alanine zwitterion	Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)	Authors:Ivan Degtyarenko, Karl J. Jalkanen, Andrey A. Gurtovenko, Risto M. Nieminen	 Abstract: The structural properties of L-alanine amino acid in aqueous solution and in crystalline phase have been studied by means of density-functional electronic-structure and molecular dynamics simulations. The solvated zwitterionic structure of L-alanine (+NH3-C2H4-COO-) was systematically compared to the structure of its zwitterionic crystalline analogue acquired from both computer simulations and experiments. It turns out that the structural properties of an alanine molecule in aqueous solution can differ significantly from those in crystalline phase, these differences being mainly attributed to hydrogen bonding interactions. In particular, we found that the largest difference between the two alanine forms can be seen for the orientation and bond lengths of the carboxylate (COO-) group: in aqueous solution the C-O bond lengths appear to strongly correlate with the number of water molecules which form hydrogen bonds with the COO- group. Furthermore, the hydrogen bond lengths are shorter and the hydrogen bond angles are larger for L-alanine in water as compared to crystal. Overall, our findings strongly suggest that the generally accepted approach of extending the structural information acquired from crystallographic data to a L-alanine molecule in aqueous solution should be used with caution. 
0704.02701	Twisted Dirac Operators over Quantum Spheres	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Andrzej Sitarz	 Abstract: We construct new families of spectral triples over quantum spheres, with a particular attention focused on the standard Podles quantum sphere and twisted Dirac operators. 
0704.02702	Semiclassical theory of ballistic transport through chaotic cavities  with spin-orbit interaction	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Jens Bolte, Daniel Waltner	 Abstract: We investigate the influence of spin-orbit interaction on ballistic transport through chaotic cavities by using semiclassical methods. Our approach is based on the Landauer formalism and the Fisher-Lee relations, appropriately generalized to spin-orbit interaction, and a semiclassical representation of Green functions. We calculate conductance coefficients by exploiting ergodicity and mixing of suitably combined classical spin-orbit dynamics, and making use of the Sieber-Richter method and its most recent extensions. That way we obtain weak anti-localization and confirm previous results obtained in the symplectic ensemble of Random Matrix Theory. 
0704.02703	Photoelectric phenomena in structures based on high-resistivity  semiconductor crystals with a thin insulator layer at the semiconductor-metal  boundary	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:P. G. Kasherininov, A. V. Kichaev, A. A. Tomasov	 Abstract: A previously unknown effect-giant spatial redistribution of the electric field strength in a crystal under illumination of the structure - was discovered and investigated in real photoresistors on high-resistivity (semi-insulating) semiconductor CdTe crystals (in metal-thin insulator- semiconductor-thin insulator -metal structures). A new concept is proposed for photoelectric phenomena in high- resistivity semiconductor crystals. The concept is based on the idea that the redistribution of the field under such conditions that the carrier lifetime remains unchanged under illumination plays a determining role in these phenomena. The nature of the effect is described, the dependence of the characteristics of the structures on the parameters of the crystal and the insulator layers is explained by the manifestation of this effect, and ways to produce structures with prescribed photoelectric characteristics for new devices and scientific methods are examined. 
0704.02704	Gas-grain chemistry in cold interstellar cloud cores with a microscopic  Monte Carlo approach to surface chemistry	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Q. Chang (1), H. M. Cuppen (1,2), E. Herbst (1,3) ((1) Department of Physics, The Ohio State University, USA (2) Leiden Observatory, Leiden University, The Netherlands (3) Departments of Chemistry and Astronomy, The Ohio State University, USA)	 Abstract: AIM: We have recently developed a microscopic Monte Carlo approach to study surface chemistry on interstellar grains and the morphology of ice mantles. The method is designed to eliminate the problems inherent in the rate-equation formalism to surface chemistry. Here we report the first use of this method in a chemical model of cold interstellar cloud cores that includes both gas-phase and surface chemistry. The surface chemical network consists of a small number of diffusive reactions that can produce molecular oxygen, water, carbon dioxide, formaldehyde, methanol and assorted radicals. METHOD: The simulation is started by running a gas-phase model including accretion onto grains but no surface chemistry or evaporation. The starting surface consists of either flat or rough olivine. We introduce the surface chemistry of the three species H, O and CO in an iterative manner using our stochastic technique. Under the conditions of the simulation, only atomic hydrogen can evaporate to a significant extent. Although it has little effect on other gas-phase species, the evaporation of atomic hydrogen changes its gas-phase abundance, which in turn changes the flux of atomic hydrogen onto grains. The effect on the surface chemistry is treated until convergence occurs. We neglect all non-thermal desorptive processes. RESULTS: We determine the mantle abundances of assorted molecules as a function of time through 2x10^5 yr. Our method also allows determination of the abundance of each molecule in specific monolayers. The mantle results can be compared with observations of water, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, and methanol ices in the sources W33A and Elias 16. Other than a slight underproduction of mantle CO, our results are in very good agreement with observations. 
0704.02705	Chemical Properties of Star Forming Dwarf Galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:O. Vaduvescu, M. L. McCall, M. G. Richer	 Abstract: Recent studies of the near-infrared (NIR) properties of dwarf irregular galaxies (dIs) and blue compact dwarfs (BCDs) have provided improved estimates for the NIR luminosity of old stellar populations in these galaxies. These can be used to derive gas fractions, and thereby to evaluate how BCDs have evolved with respect to dIs. Oxygen abundances have been derived for four BCDs in the Virgo Cluster from a run at Gemini-North in 2003. Combining these new abundances with published values, we study the correlations among the metallicity, Ks luminosity, gas mass, baryonic mass, and gas fraction. Within errors, the two types of dwarfs appear to share a common relation between the oxygen abundance and the luminosity in Ks. The correlation between metallicity and the gas fraction is the same for BCDs as for dIs, indicating that BCD evolution has been similar to dIs. Since dIs appear to have evolved as isolated systems, the BCD bursts are unlikely to be a consequence of gas infall or merging. 
0704.02706	The Dynamical Discrete Web	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:L. R. G. Fontes, C. M. Newman, K. Ravishankar, E. Schertzer	 Abstract: The dynamical discrete web (DDW), introduced in recent work of Howitt and Warren, is a system of coalescing simple symmetric one-dimensional random walks which evolve in an extra continuous dynamical parameter s. The evolution is by independent updating of the underlying Bernoulli variables indexed by discrete space-time that define the discrete web at any fixed s. In this paper, we study the existence of exceptional (random) values of s where the paths of the web do not behave like usual random walks and the Hausdorff dimension of the set of such exceptional s. Our results are motivated by those about exceptional times for dynamical percolation in high dimension by H\"aggstrom, Peres and Steif, and in dimension two by Schramm and Steif. The exceptional behavior of the walks in DDW is rather different from the situation for dynamical random walks of Benjamini, H\"aggstrom, Peres and Steif. In particular, we prove that there are exceptional values of s for which the walk from the origin S^s(n) has limsup S^s(n)/\sqrt n \leq K with a nontrivial dependence of the Hausdorff dimension on K. We also discuss how these and other results extend to the dynamical Brownian web, a natural scaling limit of DDW. The scaling limit is the focus of a paper in preparation; it was studied by Howitt and Warren and is related to the Brownian net of Sun and Swart. 
0704.02707	Spin-String Interaction in QCD Strings	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Vikram Vyas	 Abstract: I consider the question of the interaction between a QCD string and the spin of a quark or an antiquark on whose worldline the string terminates. The problem is analysed from the point of view of a string representation for the expectation value of a Wilson loop for a spin-half particle. A string representation of the super Wilson loop is obtained starting from an effective string representation of a Wilson Loop. The action obtained in this manner is invariant under a worldline supersymmetry and has a boundary term which contains the spin-string interaction. For rectangular loops the spin-string interaction vanishes and there is no spin-spin term in the resulting heavy quark potential. On the other hand if an allowance is made for the finite intrinsic thickness of the flux-tube, by assuming that the spin-string interaction takes place not just at the boundary of the string world-sheet but extends to a distance of the order of the intrinsic thickness of the flux tube, then we do obtain a spin-spin interaction which falls as the fifth power of the distance. Such a term was previously suggested by Kogut and Parisi in the context of a flux-tube model of confinement. 
0704.02708	Computation of Atomic Fibers of Z-Linear Maps	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Elke Eisenschmidt (1), Raymond Hemmecke (1), Matthias Köppe (1) ((1) University of Magdeburg)	 Abstract: For given matrix $A\in\Z^{d\times n}$, the set $P_{b}=\{z:Az=b,z\in\Z^n_+\}$ describes the preimage or fiber of $b\in\Z^d$ under the $\Z$-linear map $f_A:\Z^n_+\to\Z^d$, $x\mapsto Ax$. The fiber $P_{b}$ is called atomic, if $P_{b}=P_{b_1}+P_{b_2}$ implies $b=b_1$ or $b=b_2$. In this paper we present a novel algorithm to compute such atomic fibers. An algorithmic solution to appearing subproblems, computational examples and applications are included as well. 
0704.02709	Resonant relaxation near a massive black hole: the dependence on  eccentricity	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Atakan Gürkan (1), Clovis Hopman (2) ((1) University of Amsterdam (2) Leiden University)	 Abstract: The orbits of stars close to a massive black hole are nearly Keplerian ellipses. Such orbits exert long term torques on each other, which lead to an enhanced angular momentum relaxation known as resonant relaxation. Under certain conditions, this process can modify the angular momentum distribution and affect the interaction rates of the stars with the massive black hole more efficiently than non-resonant relaxation. The torque on an orbit exerted by the cluster depends on the eccentricity of the orbit. In this paper, we calculate this dependence and determine the resonant relaxation timescale as a function of eccentricity. In particular, we show that the component of the torque that changes the magnitude of the angular momentum is linearly proportional to eccentricity, so resonant relaxation is much more efficient on eccentric orbits than on circular orbits. 
0704.02710	Six New ZZ Ceti Stars from the SPY and the HQS Surveys	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:B. Voss, D. Koester, R. Østensen, R. Napiwotzki, D. Homeier, D. Reimers	 Abstract: We report on the discovery of six new ZZ Ceti stars. They were selected as candidates based on preparatory photometric observations of objects from the Hamburg Quasar Survey (HQS), and based on the spectra of the Supernova Ia Progenitor Survey (SPY). Time-series photometry of 19 candidate stars was carried out at the Nordic Optical Telescope (NOT) at Roque de Los Muchachos Observatory, Spain. The new variables are relatively bright, 15.4<B<16.6. Among them is WD1150-153, which is the third ZZ Ceti star that shows photospheric CaII in its spectrum. 
0704.02711	Zipf law in the popularity distribution of chess openings	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:B. Blasius, R. Toenjes	 Abstract: We perform a quantitative analysis of extensive chess databases and show that the frequencies of opening moves are distributed according to a power-law with an exponent that increases linearly with the game depth, whereas the pooled distribution of all opening weights follows Zipf's law with universal exponent. We propose a simple stochastic process that is able to capture the observed playing statistics and show that the Zipf law arises from the self-similar nature of the game tree of chess. Thus, in the case of hierarchical fragmentation the scaling is truly universal and independent of a particular generating mechanism. Our findings are of relevance in general processes with composite decisions. 
0704.02712	Dynamics of meromorphic functions with direct or logarithmic  singularities	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Walter Bergweiler, Philip J. Rippon, Gwyneth M. Stallard	 Abstract: We show that if a meromorphic function has a direct singularity over infinity, then the escaping set has an unbounded component and the intersection of the escaping set with the Julia set contains continua. This intersection has an unbounded component if and only if the function has no Baker wandering domains. We also give estimates of the Hausdorff dimension and the upper box dimension of the Julia set of a meromorphic function with a logarithmic singularity over infinity. The above theorems are deduced from more general results concerning functions which have "direct or logarithmic tracts", but which need not be meromorphic in the plane. These results are obtained by using a generalization of Wiman-Valiron theory. The method is also applied to complex differential equations. 
0704.02713	Tverberg's theorem with constraints	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Stephan Hell	 Abstract: The topological Tverberg theorem claims that for any continuous map of the (q-1)(d+1)-simplex to R^d there are q disjoint faces such that their images have a non-empty intersection. This has been proved for affine maps, and if $q$ is a prime power, but not in general. We extend the topological Tverberg theorem in the following way: Pairs of vertices are forced to end up in different faces. This leads to the concept of constraint graphs. In Tverberg's theorem with constraints, we come up with a list of constraints graphs for the topological Tverberg theorem. The proof is based on connectivity results of chessboard-type complexes. Moreover, Tverberg's theorem with constraints implies new lower bounds for the number of Tverberg partitions. As a consequence, we prove Sierksma's conjecture for $d=2$, and $q=3$. 
0704.02714	On the formation of gyration-like excitations in solid solutions	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:S. I. Morozov	 Abstract: Measurements of thermal excitations of V-O and Y-Ba-Cu-O solid solutions have been performed by a method of inelastic neutron scattering for low-energy transfers range. Features at energy transfer about 3meV and about 5meV for V-O and Y-Ba-Cu-O accordingly were observed in neutron scattering spectra. The reason of appearance of the observed low-energy excitations are the formation of an effective potential of oxygen with broad weakly upwards bottom at the xy plane of tetragonal symmetry octahedron, which the interstitial atom occupies. The experimental observed features can be understood in the representation of hindered quantum gyration of the interstitial atom. It was assumed that O1 and O4 atoms in Y-Ba-Cu-O, as well as in V-O system, are in two-dimensional quantum-well, which has almost flat bottom formed by the surrounding atoms Cu and Ba. The possibility of formation of collective excitations of gyration-type as a result of exchange interaction of light atoms in matrix lattice is considered. The assumption is made that the existence of gyration-like excitations can play an important role for explanation of some phenomena in solid state physics, in particular in realization of high values of temperatures of superconducting transitions in high temperature superconductors. 
0704.02715	Multidimensional SDE with anticipating initial process and reflection	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Zongxia Liang	 Abstract: In this paper, the strong solutions $ (X, L)$ of multidimensional stochastic differential equations with reflecting boundary and possible anticipating initial random variables is established. The key is to obtain some substitution formula for Stratonovich integrals via a uniform convergence of the corresponding Riemann sums and to prove continuity of functionals of $ (X, L)$. 
0704.02716	Constructing a quadrilateral inside another one	General Mathematics (math.GM)	Authors:J. M. Ash, M. A. Ash, P. F. Ash	 Abstract: Connect each vertex of a convex quadrilateral Q to the midpoint of the next (proceeding counterclockwise) side. The four connecting lines create an interior quadrilateral I. We study the ratio area(I)/area(Q). We also determine what happens to area(I)/area(Q) when the four midpoints are replaced by points which divide the sides in the ratio of rho to (1-rho) proceeding clockwise. Here rho is any fixed number satisfying 0 < rho < 1. 
0704.02717	Two Dimensional Quantum (4,4) Null Superstring in de Sitter Space	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:F. Assaoui, T. Lhallabi	 Abstract: The (4,4) null superstring equations of motions and constraints on de Sitter space are given by using the harmonic superspace. These are solved explicitly by performing a perturbative expansion of the (4,4) superstring coordinates in powers of c2, the world-sheet speed of light. The analytic expressions of the zeroth and first order solutions are determined. On the other hand, we study the quantization of the (4,4)null superstring in de Sitter space and we describe its superalgebra. 
0704.02718	Cosmic Ray Origin and Propagation Model	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Adrian Sabin Popescu	 Abstract: It is presumed that the observed cosmic rays up to about $3\times 10^{18}$ eV are of Galactic origin, the particles being the ones which are found in the composition of the stellar winds of stars that explode as supernova into the interstellar medium (ISM) or into their winds. These particles are accelerated in the supernova shock. In order to obtain the observed cosmic ray spectrum it is necessary to take into account the diffusive losses in the Galaxy (which are making the energy spectrum more steeper). Another modification of the source spectrum is due to the fragmentation (spallation) of the cosmic ray particles, after their collision with the ISM atoms. In this paper we are proving that some particles are injected in the supernova shock one or two time ionized, and, also, that the contribution of massive stars ($30 M_{\odot}\leq M\leq 50 M_{\odot}$) accelerated particles to cosmic rays (where the winds are highly enriched in heavy elements) is 1:2 for elements with $Z\geq 6$. Another goal of this paper is to check if the particles are injected with the same velocity, energy or momentum. 
0704.02719	The white dwarf luminosity function --II. The effect of the measurement  errors and other biases	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Torres, E. Garcia-Berro, J. Isern	 Abstract: Only the 1/V_max method has been employed so far for observationally determining the white dwarf luminosity function, whereas for other kind of luminosity functions several other methods have been frequently used. Moreover, the procedures to determine the white dwarf luminosity function are not free of biases. These biases have two different origins: they can either be of statistical nature or a consequence of the measurement errors. In a previous paper we carried out an in-depth study of the first category of biases for several luminosity function estimators. In this paper we focus on the biases introduced by the measurement errors and on the effects of the degree of contamination of the input sample used to build the disc white dwarf luminosity function by different kinematical populations. To assess the extent of these biases we use a Monte Carlo simulator to generate a controlled synthetic population and analyse the behaviour of the disc white dwarf luminosity function for several assumptions about the magnitude of the measurement errors and for several degrees of contamination, comparing the performances of the most robust luminosity function estimators under such conditions. 
0704.02720	Application of energy and angular momentum balance to gravitational  radiation reaction for binary systems with spin-orbit coupling	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Jing Zeng, Clifford M. Will (Washington University, St. Louis)	 Abstract: We study gravitational radiation reaction in the equations of motion for binary systems with spin-orbit coupling, at order (v/c)^7 beyond Newtonian gravity, or O(v/c)^2 beyond the leading radiation reaction effects for non-spinning bodies. We use expressions for the energy and angular momentum flux at infinity that include spin-orbit corrections, together with an assumption of energy and angular momentum balance, to derive equations of motion that are valid for general orbits and for a class of coordinate gauges. We show that the equations of motion are compatible with those derived earlier by a direct calculation. 
0704.02721	Half-vortices in polariton condensates	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Yuri Rubo	 Abstract: It is shown that vortices in linearly polarized polariton condensates in planar semiconductor microcavities carry two winding numbers (k,m). These numbers can be either integer or half-integer simultaneously. Four half-integer vortices (1/2,1/2), (-1/2,-1/2), (1/2,-1/2), and (-1/2,1/2) are anisotropic, possess the smallest energy, and define the Kosterlitz-Thouless transition temperature. The condensate concentration remains finite within the core of half-vortex and the polarization becomes fully circular in the core center. 
0704.02722	Multi-epoch VLBA observations of 3C 66A	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:H.-B. Cai, Z.-Q. Shen, H. Sudou, L.-L. Shang, S. Iguchi, Y. Murata, Y. Taniguchi, K. Wakamatsu, H. Takaba	 Abstract: We present the results of six-epoch Very Long Baseline Array (VLBA) observations of 3C~66A. The high-resolution Very Long Baseline Interferometer (VLBI) maps obtained at multi-frequency (2.3, 8.4, and 22.2 GHz) simultaneously enabled us to identify the brightest compact component with the core. We find that the spectrum of the core can be reasonably fitted by the synchrotron self-absorption model. Our VLBA maps show that the jet of 3C~66A has two bendings at about 1.2 and 4 mas from the core. We also give possible identifications of our jet components with the components in previous VLBA observations by analysing their proper motions. We find consistent differences of the position from the core in one component between different frequencies at six epochs. 
0704.02723	Two Generator Subalgebras of Lie Algebras	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Kevin Bowman, David A. Towers, Vicente R. Varea	 Abstract: J. G. Thompson showed that a finite group G is solvable if and only if every two -generated subgroup is solvable. Recently, Grunevald, Kunyavskii, Nikolova, and Plotkin have shown that the analogue holds for finite-dimensional Lie algebras over infinite fields of characteristic greater than 5. It is a natural question to ask to what extent the two-generated subalgebras determine the structure of the algebra. It is to this question that this paper is addressed. Here, we consider the classes of strongly-solvable and of supersolvable Lie algebras, and the property of triangulability. 
0704.02724	Neutrino beams as a probe of the nuclear isospin and spin-isospin  excitations	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:R. Lazauskas, C. Volpe	 Abstract: We explore the possibility of performing nuclear structure studies using low energy neutrino beams. In particular, low energy beta-beams and conventional sources (muon decay-at-rest) are considered. We present results on the total charged-current as well as flux-averaged cross sections associated to electron (anti)-neutrino scattering on oxygen, iron, molybdenum and lead, as typical examples. It is shown that by using neutrinos from low energy beta-beams, information on forbidden states, in particular the spin-dipole, could be extracted. 
0704.02725	Exploiting Heavy Tails in Training Times of Multilayer Perceptrons: A  Case Study with the UCI Thyroid Disease Database	Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)	Authors:Manuel Cebrian, Ivan Cantador	 Abstract: The random initialization of weights of a multilayer perceptron makes it possible to model its training process as a Las Vegas algorithm, i.e. a randomized algorithm which stops when some required training error is obtained, and whose execution time is a random variable. This modeling is used to perform a case study on a well-known pattern recognition benchmark: the UCI Thyroid Disease Database. Empirical evidence is presented of the training time probability distribution exhibiting a heavy tail behavior, meaning a big probability mass of long executions. This fact is exploited to reduce the training time cost by applying two simple restart strategies. The first assumes full knowledge of the distribution yielding a 40% cut down in expected time with respect to the training without restarts. The second, assumes null knowledge, yielding a reduction ranging from 9% to 23%. 
0704.02726	Cumulants and large deviations of the current through non-equilibrium  steady states	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:T. Bodineau, B.Derrida	 Abstract: Using a generalisation of the detailed balance for systems maintained out of equilibrium by contact with 2 reservoirs at unequal temperatures or at unequal densities, we recover the fluctuation theorem for the large deviation funtion of the current. For large diffusive systems, we show how the large deviation funtion of the current can be computed using a simple additivity principle. The validity of this additivity principle and the occurence of phase transitions are discussed in the framework of the macroscopic fluctuation theory. 
0704.02727	Complex quotients by nonclosed groups and their stratifications	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Fiammetta Battaglia	 Abstract: We define the notion of complex stratification by quasifolds and show that such spaces occur as complex quotients by certain nonclosed subgroups of tori associated to convex polytopes. The spaces thus obtained provide a natural generalization to the nonrational case of the notion of toric variety associated with a rational convex polytope. 
0704.02728	An automated system for lung nodule detection in low-dose computed  tomography	Medical Physics (physics.med-ph)	Authors:I. Gori, M.E. Fantacci, A. Preite Martinez, A. Retico	 Abstract: A computer-aided detection (CAD) system for the identification of pulmonary nodules in low-dose multi-detector helical Computed Tomography (CT) images was developed in the framework of the MAGIC-5 Italian project. One of the main goals of this project is to build a distributed database of lung CT scans in order to enable automated image analysis through a data and cpu GRID infrastructure. The basic modules of our lung-CAD system, a dot-enhancement filter for nodule candidate selection and a neural classifier for false-positive finding reduction, are described. The system was designed and tested for both internal and sub-pleural nodules. The results obtained on the collected database of low-dose thin-slice CT scans are shown in terms of free response receiver operating characteristic (FROC) curves and discussed. 
0704.02729	Spherically symmetric spacetimes in f(R) gravity theories	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Kimmo Kainulainen, Johanna Piilonen, Vappu Reijonen, Daniel Sunhede	 Abstract: We study both analytically and numerically the gravitational fields of stars in f(R) gravity theories. We derive the generalized Tolman-Oppenheimer-Volkov equations for these theories and show that in metric f(R) models the Parameterized Post-Newtonian parameter $\gamma_{\rm PPN} = 1/2$ is a robust outcome for a large class of boundary conditions set at the center of the star. This result is also unchanged by introduction of dark matter in the Solar System. We find also a class of solutions with $\gamma_{\rm PPN} \approx 1$ in the metric $f(R)=R-\mu^4/R$ model, but these solutions turn out to be unstable and decay in time. On the other hand, the Palatini version of the theory is found to satisfy the Solar System constraints. We also consider compact stars in the Palatini formalism, and show that these models are not inconsistent with polytropic equations of state. Finally, we comment on the equivalence between f(R) gravity and scalar-tensor theories and show that many interesting Palatini f(R) gravity models can not be understood as a limiting case of a Jordan-Brans-Dicke theory with $\omega \to -3/2$. 
0704.02730	Resonant decompositions and the I-method for cubic nonlinear Schrodinger  on R^2	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:J. Colliander, M. Keel, G. Staffilani, H. Takaoka, T. Tao	 Abstract: The initial value problem for the cubic defocusing nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation $i \partial_t u + \Delta u = |u|^2 u$ on the plane is shown to be globally well-posed for initial data in $H^s (\R^2)$ provided $s>1/2$. The proof relies upon an almost conserved quantity constructed using multilinear correction terms. The main new difficulty is to control the contribution of resonant interactions to these correction terms. The resonant interactions are significant due to the multidimensional setting of the problem and some orthogonality issues which arise. 
0704.02731	Global structure and physical interpretation of the Fonarev solution for  a scalar field with exponential potential	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Hideki Maeda	 Abstract: We discuss the physical interpretation of a dynamical and inhomogeneous spherically symmetric solution obtained by Fonarev for a scalar field with an exponential potential. There is a single parameter $w$ in the solution which can be set to $\pm1$ if it is non-zero, in addition to the steepness parameter $\lambda$ in the potential. The spacetime is conformally static and asymptotically flat Friedmann-Robertson-Walker spacetime. The solution reduces to the Friedmann-Robertson-Walker solution for $w=0$. There are two curvature singularities, of which one is a timelike central singularity and the other is a big-bang or big-crunch type singularity. Depending on the parameters, the spacetime can possess a future outer trapping horizon in the collapsing case. Then the solution represents a dynamical black hole in the sense of Hayward although there is a locally naked singularity at the center and no black-hole event horizon. This demonstrates a weak point of the local definition of a black hole in terms of a trapping horizon. 
0704.02732	Brauer Algebras of Simply Laced Type	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Arjeh M Cohen, Bart Frenk, David Wales	 Abstract: The diagram algebra introduced by Brauer that describes the centralizer algebra on tensor products of the natural representation of an orthogonal group has a presentation by generators and relations that only depends on the graph of type An on n nodes. Here we describe an algebra depending on an arbitrary graph of type M. We study its structure when the type is An, Dn, E6, E7, E8. We determine the representations and find the dimensions. The algebra is generically semisimple and contains the group algebra of the Coxeter type M as a subalgebra. It is a ring homomorphism of the Birman-Murakami-Wenzl algebra of these types. This fact will be used in later work determining the structure of Birman-Murakami-Wenzl algebras of simply laced spherical type. 
0704.02733	The order of the decay of the hole probability for Gaussian random  SU(m+1) polynomials	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Scott Zrebiec	 Abstract: We show that for Gaussian random SU(m+1) polynomials of a large degree N the probability that there are no zeros in the disk of radius r is less than $e^{-c_{1,r} N^{m+1}}$, and is also greater than $e^{-c_{2,r} N^{m+1}}$. Enroute to this result, we also derive a more general result: probability estimates for the event where the volume of the zero set of a random polynomial of high degree deviates significantly from its mean. 
0704.02734	A Cohen-Macaulay algebra has only finitely many semidualizing modules	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:Lars Winther Christensen, Sean Sather-Wagstaff	 Abstract: We prove the result stated in the title, which answers the equicharacteristic case of a question of Vasconcelos. 
0704.02735	Charge Polarization Effects and Hole Spectra Characteristics in  Alxgai-xN/Gan Superlattices	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:F.Assaoui, P. Pereyra	 Abstract: We study the effects of charge polarization on the extended physical properties of superlattices, such as transmission coefficients and valence band structure. We consider both linear and parabolic modulation of the band edge. Based on the theory of finite periodic systems (TFPS), analytic expressions and high precision calculations of the relevant physical quantities for n-cell systems are obtained. New and also well-known features of these systems are identified. Besides the well-known energy bandstructure, we also have the field bandstructure, with interesting characteristics.Wider field gaps at stronger internal electric fields and higher density of field bands for larger layer widths are some of these characteristics. Well denned level density asymmetries identify the minibands induced by charge polarization or the so-called Quantum Confining Stark Effect. We present the n-cell transmission amplitudes, transmission coefficients and miniband structures for different values of the relevant parameters. 
0704.02736	Twin Paradox and Causality	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:T. Grandou, J.L. Rubin	 Abstract: After pointing out the historical avatar at the origin of a would be twin or clock paradox, we argue that, at least on a local scale, the (re-qualified) paradox is but a necessary consequence of the sole principle of causality. 
0704.02737	INTEGRAL high energy detection of the transient IGR J11321-5311	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:V. Sguera, A. Bazzano, A. J. Bird, A. B. Hill, A. J. Dean, L. Bassani, A. Malizia, P. Ubertini	 Abstract: Context: The transient hard X-ray source IGR J11321-5311 was discovered by INTEGRAL on June 2005, during observations of the Crux spiral arm. To date, this is the only detection of the source to be reported by any X/gamma-ray mission. Aims: To characterize the behaviour and hence the nature of the source through temporal and spectral IBIS analysis. Methods: Detailed spectral and temporal analysis has been performed using standard INTEGRAL software OSA v.5.1. Results: To date, IGR J11321-5311 has been detected only once. It was active for about 3.5 hours, a short and bright flare lasting about 1.5 hours is evident in the IBIS light curve. It reached a peak flux of about 80 mCrab or 2.2x10E-9 erg cmE-2 sE-1 (20--300 keV),corresponding to a peak luminosity of 1.1x10E37 erg sE-1 (assuming a distance of 6.5 kpc). During the outburst, the source was detected with a significance of 18 sigma (20--300 keV) and 8 sigma (100--300 keV). The spectrum of the total outburst activity (17--300 keV) is best fitted by the sum of a power law (Gamma=0.55+/-0.18) plus a black body (kT=1.0{+0.2}_{-0.3} keV), with no evidence for a break up to 300 keV. A spectral analysis at Science Window level revealed an evident hardening of the spectrum through the outburst. The IBIS data were searched for pulsations with no positive result. Conclusions: The X-ray spectral shape and the flaring behaviour favour the hypothesis that IGR J11321-5311 is an Anomalous X-ray Pulsar, though a different nature can not be firmly rejected at the present stage. 
0704.02738	Dark Matter Searche with GLAST	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:E. Nuss (on behalf of GLAST LAT Dark Matter and New Physics WG)	 Abstract: The Gamma-Ray Large Area Space Telescope (GLAST), scheduled to be launched in fall 2007, is the next generation satellite for high-energy gamma-ray astronomy. The Large Area Telescope (LAT), GLAST main instrument, with a wide field of view (> 2 sr), a large effective area (> 8000 cm^2 at 1 GeV) and 20 MeV - 300 GeV energy range, will provide excellent high energy gamma-ray observations for Dark Matter searches. In this paper we examine the potential of the LAT to detect gamma-rays coming from WIMPS annihilation in the context of supersymmetry. As an example, two search regions are investigated: the galactic center and the galactic satellites. 
0704.02739	Evidence for decay of spin-waves above the pseudogap in underdoped  YBa2Cu3O6.35	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:C. Stock, R.A. Cowley, W.J.L. Buyers, R. Coldea, C. Broholm, C.D. Frost, R.J. Birgeneau, R. Liang, D. Bonn, W.N. Hardy	 Abstract: The magnetic spectrum at high-energies in heavily underdoped YBa$_{2}$Cu$_{3}$O$_{6.35}$ (T$_{c}$=18 K) has been determined throughout the Brillouin zone. At low-energy the scattering forms a cone of spin excitations emanating from the antiferromagnetic (0.5, 0.5) wave vector with an acoustic velocity similar to that of insulating cuprates. At high energy transfers, below the maximum energy of 270 meV at (0.5, 0), we observe zone boundary dispersion much larger and spectral weight loss more extensive than in insulating antiferromagnets. Moreover we report phenomena not found in insulators, an overall lowering of the zone-boundary energies and a large damping of $\sim$ 100 meV of the spin excitations at high-energies. The energy above which the damping occurs coincides approximately with the gap determined from transport measurements. We propose that as the energy is raised the spin excitations encounter an extra channel of decay into particle-hole pairs of a continuum that we associate with the pseudogap. 
0704.02740	Relativistic stabilisation of the diocotron instability in a pulsar  "cylindrical" electrosphere	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. Petri	 Abstract: In a previous work, we showed that the differentially rotating equatorial disk in the pulsar's electrosphere is diocotron unstable in the non-relativistic regime. In this paper, we extend these results and study the relativistic and electromagnetic stabilisation effects by including the magnetic field perturbation and allow for relativistic speeds of the guiding centre, in a self-consistent manner. We use the electric drift approximation, valid for low-density plasmas. We linearise the coupled relativistic cold-fluid and Maxwell equations in the electric drift approximation. The non-linear eigenvalue problem for the perturbed azimuthal electric field is solved numerically with standard technics for boundary value problems like the shooting method. The spectrum of the relativistic diocotron instability in a non-neutral plasma column confined between two cylindrically conducting walls is computed. For low-speed motions, we recover the eigenfunctions and eigenspectra of the non-relativistic diocotron instability. Our algorithm is also checked in the relativistic planar diode geometry for which an analytical expression of the dispersion relation is known. As expected, when the relativistic and electromagnetic effects become significant, the diocotron instability tends to stabilise. In cylindrical geometry, for some special rotation profile, all azimuthal modes $l$ are completely suppressed for sufficiently relativistic flows. However, for the profile relevant to the electrosphere, depending on the exact rotation curves, the growth rates can either significantly decrease till they vanish or persist for moderate $l$. 
0704.02741	Near-infrared polarimetric study of the bipolar nebula IRAS 19312+1950	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K. Murakawa, J. Nakashima, K. Ohnaka, S. Deguchi	 Abstract: We obtained H-band polarimetric data of IRAS 19312+1950 using the near-infrared camera (CIAO) on the 8 m Subaru telescope. In order to investigate the physical properties of the central star and the nebula, we performed dust radiative transfer modeling and compared the model results with the observed spectral energy distributions (SEDs), the radial profiles of the total intensity image, and the fraction of linear polarization map. The total intensity image shows a nearly spherical core with ~3" radius, an S-shaped arm extending ~10" in the northwest to southeast direction, and an extended lobe towards the southwest. The polarization map shows a centro-symmetric vector alignment in almost the entire nebula and low polarizations along the S-shaped arm. These results suggest that the nebula is accompanied by a central star, and the S-shaped arm has a physically ring-like structure. From our radiative transfer modeling, we estimated the stellar temperature, the bolometric luminosity, and the current mass-loss rate to be 2800 K, 7000 L_sun, and 5.3x10^{-6} M_sun yr^{-1}, respectively. Taking into account previous observational results, such as the detection of SiO maser emissions and silicate absorption feature in the 10 $\mu$m spectrum, our dust radiative transfer analysis based on our NIR imaging polarimetry suggests that (1) the central star of IRAS 19312+1950 is likely to be an oxygen-rich, dust-enshrouded AGB star and (2) most of the circumstellar material originates from other sources (e.g. ambient dark clouds) rather than as a result of mass loss from the central star. 
0704.02742	Biordered superconductivity and strong pseudogap state	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:V.I. Belyavsky, Yu.V. Kopaev	 Abstract: Interrelation between the two-particle and mean-field problems is used to describe the strong pseudogap and superconducting states in cuprates. We present strong pseudogap state as off-diagonal short-range order (ODSRO) originating from quasi-stationary states of the pair of repulsing particles with large total momentum (K - pair). Phase transition from the ODSRO state into the off-diagonal long-range ordered (ODLRO) superconducting state is associated with Bose-Einstein condensation of the K - pairs. A checkerboard spatial order observable in the superconducting state in the cuprates is explained by a rise of the K - pair density wave. A competition between the ODSRO and ODLRO states leads to the phase diagram typical of the cuprates. Biordered superconducting state of coexisting condensates of Cooper pairs with zero momentum and K - pairs explains some properties of the cuprates observed below Tc: Drude optical conductivity, unconventional isotope effect and two-gap quasiparticle spectrum with essentially different energy scales. 
0704.02743	The Birman-Murakami-Algebras Algebras of Type Dn	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Arjeh M. Cohen, D. A. H. Gijsbers, David B. Wales	 Abstract: The Birman-Murakami-Wenzl algebra (BMW algebra) of type Dn is shown to be semisimple and free of rank (2^n+1)n!!-(2^(n-1)+1)n! over a specified commutative ring R, where n!! is the product of the first n odd integers. We also show it is a cellular algebra over suitable ring extensions of R. The Brauer algebra of type Dn is the image af an R-equivariant homomorphism and is also semisimple and free of the same rank, but over the polynomial ring Z with delta and its inverse adjoined. A rewrite system for the Brauer algebra is used in bounding the rank of the BMW algebra above. As a consequence of our results, the generalized Temperley-Lieb algebra of type Dn is a subalgebra of the BMW algebra of the same type. 
0704.02744	Nahm transform and parabolic minimal Laplace transform	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Szilard Szabo	 Abstract: We prove that Nahm transform for integrable connections with a finite number of regular singularities and an irregular singularity of rank 1 on the Riemann sphere is equivalent -- up to considering integrable connections as holonomic $\D$-modules -- to minimal Laplace transform. We assume semi-simplicity and resonance-freeness conditions, and we work in the framework of objects with a parabolic structure. In particular, we describe the definition of the parabolic version of Laplace transform due to C. Sabbah. The proof of the main result relies on the study of a twisted de Rham complex. 
0704.02745	Pioneer Anomaly and Accelerating Universe as Effects of the Minkowski  Space Conformal Symmetry	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:L.M. Tomilchik	 Abstract: On the basis of the nonisometric transformations subgroup of the SO(4.2) group, the nonlinear time inhomogeneity one-parameter conformal transformations are constructed. The connection between the group parameter and the Hubble constant H0 is established. It is shown that the existence of an anomalous blue-shifted frequency drift is a pure kinematic manifestation of the time inhomogeneity induced by the Universe expansion. This conclusion is confirmed via a generalization of the standard Special Relativity clock synchronization procedure to the space expanding case. The obtained formulae are in accordance with the observable Pioneer Anomaly effect. The anomalous blue-shifted drift is universal, does not depend on the presence of graviting centers and can be, in principle, observed on any frequencies under suitable experimental conditions. The explicit analytic expression for the speed of recession--intergalactic distance ratio is obtained in the form of a function of the red shift z valid in the whole range of its variation. In the small z limit this expression exactly reproduces the Hubble law. The maximum value of this function at z=0.475 quantitatively corresponds to the experimentally found value z(exp) = 0.46 +/- 0.13 of the transition from the decelerated to the accelerated expansion of the Universe. 
0704.02746	Intermediate regime in Tetrathiafulvalene-Chloranil (TTF-CA)  pressure-induced neutral-ionic transition	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Matteo Masino, Alberto Girlando, Aldo Brillante	 Abstract: We report a detailed spectroscopic study of the pressure induced neutral-ionic phase transition (NIT) of the mixed-stack charge-transfer (CT) crystal tetrathiafulvalene-chloranil (TTF-CA). We show that the pressure induced phase transition is still first-order and involves the presence of an intermediate disordered phase, defined by the coexistence of two species of different ionicity. Further application of pressure gradually converts this phase into an homogeneous ferroelectric phase with a single ionicity. In addition, we detect strong pretransitional phenomena which anticipate the intermediate phase and are indicative of a precursor dynamic regime dominated by fluctuations. 
0704.02747	On the stratified dust distribution of the GG Tau circumbinary ring	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C. Pinte, L. Fouchet, F. Menard, J.-F. Gonzalez, G. Duchene	 Abstract: Our objective is to study the vertical dust distribution in the circumbinary ring of the binary system GG Tau and to search for evidence of stratification, one of the first steps expected to occur during planet formation. We present a simultaneous analysis of four scattered light images spanning a range of wavelength from 800 nm to 3800 nm and compare them with (i) a parametric prescription for the vertical dust stratification, and (ii) with the results of SPH bi-fluid hydrodynamic calculations. The parametric prescription and hydrodynamical calculations of stratification both reproduce the observed brightness profiles well. These models also provide a correct match for the observed star/ring integrated flux ratio. Another solution with a well-mixed, but ``exotic'', dust size distribution also matches the brightness profile ratios but fails to match the star/ring flux ratio. These results give support to the presence of vertical stratification of the dust in the ring of GG Tau and further predict the presence of a radial stratification also. 
0704.02748	Droplets in the two-dimensional +-J spin glass: evidence for (non-)  universality	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:A. K. Hartmann	 Abstract: Using mappings to computer-science problems and by applying sophisticated algorithms, one can study numerically many problems much better compared to applying standard approaches like Monte Carlo simulations. Here, using calculations of ground states of suitable perturbed systems, droplets are obtained in two-dimensional +-J spin glasses, which are in the focus of a currently very lifely debate. Since a sophisticated matching algorithm is applied here, exact ground states of large systems up to L^2=256^2 spins can be generated. Furthermore, no equilibration or extrapolation to T=0 is necessary. Three different +-J models are studied here: a) with open boundary conditions, b) with fixed boundary conditions and c) a diluted system where a fraction p=0.125 of all bonds is zero. For large systems, the droplet energy shows for all three models a power-law behavior E_D L^\theta'_D with \theta'_D<0. This is different from previous studies of domain walls, where a convergence to a constant non-zero value (\theta_dw=0) has been found for such models. After correcting for the non-compactness of the droplets, the results are likely to be compatible with \theta_D= -0.29 for all three models. This is in accordance with the Gaussian system where \theta_D=-0.287(4) (\nu=3.5 via \nu=-1/\theta_D). Nevertheless, the disorder-averaged spin-spin correlation exponent \eta is determined here via the probability to have a non-zero-energy droplet, and \eta~0.22$ is found for all three models, this being in contrast to the behavior of the model with Gaussian interactions, where exactly \eta=0. 
0704.02749	Remarks to Glazek's results on n-ary groups	History and Overview (math.HO)	Authors:Wieslaw A. Dudek	 Abstract: It is a survey of the results obtained by K. Glazek's and his co-workers. We restrict our attention to the problems of axiomatizations of n-ary groups, classes of n-ary groups, properties of skew elements and homomorphisms induced by skew elements, constructions of covering groups, classifications and representations of n-ary groups. Some new results are added too. 
0704.02750	The kinetics of inactivation of spheroidal microbial cells by pulsed  electric fields	Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)	Authors:Nikolai Lebovka, Eugene Vorobiev	 Abstract: The nature of non-exponential kinetics in microbial cells inactivation by pulsed electric fields (PEF) is discussed. It was demonstrated that possible mechanism of non-exponential kinetics can be related to orientational disorder in suspension of microbial cells of anisotropic form. A numerical studies of spheroidal cell suspensions was carried out. The most pronounced deviations from the exponential kinetics were observed for disordered suspensions of prolate spheroids at small electric field strength $E$ or at large aspect ratio $a$. For partially oriented suspensions, efficiency of inactivation enhances with increasing of order parameter and field strength. A possibility of the PEF-induced orientational ordering in microbial suspensions is discussed. 
0704.02751	Quantum Gravity and Maximum Attainable Velocities in the Standard Model	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Jorge Alfaro	 Abstract: A main difficulty in the quantization of the gravitational field is the lack of experiments that discriminate among the theories proposed to quantize gravity. Recently we showed that the Standard Model(SM) itself contains tiny Lorentz invariance violation(LIV) terms coming from QG. All terms depend on one arbitrary parameter $\alpha$ that set the scale of QG effects. In this talk we review the LIV for mesons nucleons and leptons and apply it to study several effects, including the GZK anomaly. 
0704.02752	Modelling Thickness-Dependence of Ferroelectric Thin Film Properties	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:L. Palova, P. Chandra, K.M. Rabe	 Abstract: We present a segregrated strain model that describes the thickness-dependent dielectric properties of ferroelectric films. Using a phenomenological Landau approach, we present results for two specific materials, making comparison with experiment and with first-principles calculations whenever possible. We also suggest a "smoking gun" benchtop probe to test our elastic scenario. 
0704.02753	Local dark energy: HST evidence from the expansion flow around Cen A/M83  galaxy group	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. D. Chernin, I. D. Karachentsev, D. I. Makarov, O. G. Kashibadze, P. Teerikorpi, M. J. Valtonen, V. P. Dolgachev, L. M. Domozhilova	 Abstract: A structure with a massive group in its center and a cool expansion outflow outside is studied around the Cen A galaxy with the use of the Hubble Space Telescope observations. It is demonstrated that the dynamics of the flow is dominated by the antigravity of the dark energy background. The density of dark energy in the cell is estimated to be near the global cosmological density. This agrees with our previous result from the neighborhood of the Local group. A notion of the ``Hubble cell'' is introduced as a building block of the local structure of the universe. 
0704.02754	Tangle and Brauer Diagram Algebras of Type Dn	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Arjeh M. Cohen, D. A. H. Gijsbers, David B. Wales	 Abstract: A generalization of the Kauffman tangle algebra is given for Coxeter type Dn. The tangles involve a pole or order 2. The algebra is shown to be isomorphic to the Birman-Murakami-Wenzl algebra of the same type. This result extends the isomorphism between the two algebras in the classical case, which in our set-up, occurs when the Coxeter type is of type A with index n-1. The proof involves a diagrammatic version of the Brauer algebra of type Dn in which the Temperley-Lieb algebra of type Dn is a subalgebra. 
0704.02755	Parabolic surfaces in hyperbolic space with constant curvature	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Rafael López	 Abstract: We study parabolic linear Weingarten surfaces in hyperbolic space $\rlopezh^3$. In particular, we classify two family of parabolic surfaces: surfaces with constant Gaussian curvature and surfaces that satisfy the relation $a\kappa_1+b\kappa_2=c$, where $\kappa_i$ are the principal curvatures, and $a,b$ and $c$ are constant. 
0704.02756	The nature of a broad line radio galaxy: Simultaneous RXTE and Chandra  HETG observations of 3C 382	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Gliozzi (1), R.M. Sambruna (2), M. Eracleous (3), T. Yaqoob (4) ((1) Gmu, (2) NASA GSFC, (3) Psu, (4) Jhu, NASA GSFC)	 Abstract: We present the results from simultaneous chandra and rxte observations of the X-ray bright Broad-Line Radio Galaxy (BLRG) 3C 382. The long (120 ks) exposure with chandra HETG allows a detailed study of the soft X-ray continuum and of the narrow component of the Fe Kalpha line. The rxte PCA data are used to put an upper limit on the broad line component and constrain the hard X-ray continuum. A strong soft excess below 1 keV is observed in the time-averaged HETG spectrum, which can be parameterized with a steep power law or a thermal model. The flux variability at low energies indicates that the origin of the soft excess cannot be entirely ascribed to the circumnuclear diffuse emission, detected by chandra on scales of 20-30 arcsec (22-33 kpc). A narrow (sigma<90 eV) Fe Kalpha line (with EW< 100 eV) is observed by the chandra HEG. Similar values for the line parameters are measured by the rxte PCA, suggesting that the contribution from a broad line component is negligible. The fact that the exposure is split into two observations taken three days apart allows us to investigate the spectral and temporal evolution of the source on different timescales. Significant flux variability associated with spectral changes is observed on timescales of hours and days. The spectral variability is similar to that observed in radio-quiet AGN ruling out a jet-dominated origin of the X-rays. 
0704.02757	Polaron Physics in Optical Lattices	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Martin Bruderer, Alexander Klein, Stephen R. Clark, Dieter Jaksch	 Abstract: We investigate the effects of a nearly uniform Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) on the properties of immersed trapped impurity atoms. Using a weak-coupling expansion in the BEC-impurity interaction strength, we derive a model describing polarons, i.e., impurities dressed by a coherent state of Bogoliubov phonons, and apply it to ultracold bosonic atoms in an optical lattice. We show that, with increasing BEC temperature, the transport properties of the impurities change from coherent to diffusive. Furthermore, stable polaron clusters are formed via a phonon-mediated off-site attraction. 
0704.02758	The Orientation of the Reconnection X-line	Space Physics (physics.space-ph)	Authors:M. Swisdak, J. F. Drake	 Abstract: We propose a criterion for identifying the orientation of the X-line when two regions of plasma with arbitrary densities, temperatures, and magnetic fields undergo reconnection. The X-line points in the direction that maximizes the (suitably-defined) Alfv\'en speed characterizing the reconnection outflow. For many situations a good approximation is that the X-line bisects the angle formed by the magnetic fields. 
0704.02759	Spectroscopic investigation of spin zero homonuclear and heteronuclear  molecules	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Nagalakshmi A. Rao, B. A. Kagali	 Abstract: In the present article, we introduce a model to investigate the energy spectrum of a relativistic rotor by considering the Klein-Gordon Hamiltonian. Rotational spectral lines are a signature of homonuclear and heteronuclear systems and play a key role in understanding diatomic molecules. We show that the energy-correction term arising due to unequal masses influences the line separation. Determining the rotational constant enables one to calculate the moment of inertia and bond length of the molecule. 
0704.02760	Theory of tunneling conductance of graphene NIS junctions	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Subhro Bhattacharjee, Moitri Maiti, K. Sengupta	 Abstract: We calculate the tunneling conductance of a graphene normal metal-insulator-superconductor (NIS) junction with a barrier of thickness $d$ and with an arbitrary voltage $V_0$ applied across the barrier region. We demonstrate that the tunneling conductance of such a NIS junction is an oscillatory function of both $d$ and $V_0$. We also show that the periodicity and amplitude of such oscillations deviate from their universal values in the thin barrier limit as obtained in earlier work [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 97}, 217001 (2006)] and become a function of the applied voltage $V_0$. Our results reproduces the earlier results on tunneling conductance of such junctions in the thin [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 97}, 217001 (2006)] and zero [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 97}, 067007 (2006)] barrier limits as special limiting cases. We discuss experimental relevance of our results. 
0704.02761	Self-Compensation of Conductionin Cd0.95Zn0.05Te:Cl Crystals in a Wide  Range of Cd Vapor Pressures	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:O. A. Matveev, A. I. Terent'ev, N. K. Zelenina, V. N. Gus'kov, V. E. Sedov, A. A. Tomasov, V. P. Karpenko	 Abstract: The process of self-compensation in Cd0.95Zn0.05Te:Cl solid-solution crystals has been studied by annealing single crystals under a controlled Cd vapor pressure, with subsequent measurements of the Hall effect, photoluminescence, carrier lifetime and mobility, and photocurrent memory in the annealed crystals. By means of this annealing, conditions of thermal treatment that make it possible to fabricate low-conductivity samples with a low carrier density, 10E7-10E11 cm-3, are denned. In these samples, a p -- n conduction inversion is observed at a higher free-carrier density ((n, p) near 10E9 cm-3) and the dependence of the electron density on the Cd vapor pressure exhibits a more gentle slope than in the case of CdTe:Cl crystals. The obtained data are dis-cussed in terms of a self-compensation model in which intrinsic point defects act as acceptors with deep levels. This level is attributed to a Zn vacancy, which remains active at high Cd pressure. 
0704.02762	Three Years of Mira Variable CCD Photometry: What Has Been Learned?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D. E. Mais (1), D. Richards (2), R. E. Stencel (3) ((1) Palomar Community College, (2) Aberdeen and District Astronomical Society, (3) University of Denver - Astronomy)	 Abstract: The subject of micro-variability among Mira stars has received increased attention since DeLaverny et al. (1998) reported short-term brightness variations in 15 percent of the 250 Mira or Long Period Variable stars surveyed using the broadband 340 to 890 nm Hp filter on the HIPPARCOS satellite. The abrupt variations reported ranged 0.2 to 1.1 magnitudes, on time-scales between 2 to 100 hours, with a preponderance found nearer Mira minimum light phases. However, the HIPPARCOS sampling frequency was extremely sparse and required confirmation because of potentially important atmospheric dynamics and dust-formation physics that could be revealed. We report on Mira light curve sub-structure based on new CCD V and R band data, augmenting the known light curves of Hipparcos-selected long period variables [LPVs], and interpret same in terms of [1] interior structure, [2] atmospheric structure change, and/or [3] formation of circumstellar [CS] structure. We propose that the alleged micro-variability among Miras is largely undersampled, transient overtone pulsation structure in the light curves. 
0704.02763	Equivariant Bundles and Isotropy Representations	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Ian Hambleton, Jean-Claude Hausmann	 Abstract: We introduce a new construction, the isotropy groupoid, to organize the orbit data for split $\Gamma$-spaces. We show that equivariant principal $G$-bundles over split $\Gamma$-CW complexes $X$ can be effectively classified by means of representations of their isotropy groupoids. For instance, if the quotient complex $A=\Gamma\backslash X$ is a graph, with all edge stabilizers toral subgroups of $\Gamma$, we obtain a purely combinatorial classification of bundles with structural group $G$ a compact connected Lie group. If $G$ is abelian, our approach gives combinatorial and geometric descriptions of some results of Lashof-May-Segal and Goresky-Kottwitz-MacPherson. 
0704.02764	A simple description of the states $0^+$ and $2^+$ in $^{168}Er$	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:A. A. Raduta, F. D. Aaron	 Abstract: A sixth-order quadrupole boson Hamiltonian is used to describe 26 states $0^+$ and 67 states $2^+$ which have been recently identified in $^{168}Er$. Two closed expressions are alternatively used for energy levels. One corresponds to a semi-classical approach while the other one represents the exact eigenvalue of the model Hamiltonian. The semi-classical expression involves four parameters, while the exact eigenvalue is determined by five parameters. In each of the two descriptions a least square fit procedure is adopted. Both expressions provide a surprisingly good agreement with the experimental data. 
0704.02765	Entanglement of localized states	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:O. Giraud, J. Martin, B. Georgeot	 Abstract: We derive exact expressions for the mean value of Meyer-Wallach entanglement Q for localized random vectors drawn from various ensembles corresponding to different physical situations. For vectors localized on a randomly chosen subset of the basis, <Q> tends for large system sizes to a constant which depends on the participation ratio, whereas for vectors localized on adjacent basis states it goes to zero as a constant over the number of qubits. Applications to many-body systems and Anderson localization are discussed. 
0704.02766	Comparison of Particle Production in Quark and Gluon Fragmentation at  sqrt s ~ 10 GeV	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:R.A. Briere, et al. CLEO Collaboration	 Abstract: Using data collected with the CLEO III detector at the Cornell Electron Storage Ring, we study the inclusive production of baryons/antibaryons (p, /) and mesons (phi and f_2(1270)) in gluon-fragmentation and quark-fragmentation processes. We first corroborate previous per-event total particle yields in Upsilon(1S)->ggg compared with nearby continuum (e+e- -> qqbar) indicating greater (x2) per-event yields of baryons in 3-gluon fragmentation. We find similar results when we extend that comparison to include the Upsilon(2S) and Upsilon(3S) resonances. With higher statistics, we now also probe the momentum dependence of these per-event particle yields. Next, we compare particle production in the photon-tagged process Upsilon(1S)->gggamma with that in e+e- -> qqbar events, to allow comparison of two-parton with three-parton particle-specific fragmentation. For each particle, we determine the `enhancement' ratio, defined as the ratio of particle yields per gluon fragmentation event compared to quark fragmentation event. Thus defined, an enhancement of 1.0 implies equal per-event production in both gluon and quark fragmentation. In the photon-tagged analysis (U(1S)->gggamma compared to e+e- -> qqbar+gamma), we find almost no enhancement for protons (1.2+/-0.1), but a significant enhancement (1.9+/-0.3) for /\'s. Overall, per-event baryon production in radiative two-gluon fragmentation is somewhat smaller than that observed in three-gluon decays of the Upsilon(1S). Our results for baryon production are inconsistent with the predictions of the JETSET (7.3) fragmentation model. 
0704.02767	A Jet-like Outflow toward the High-Mass (Proto)stellar Object IRAS  18566+0408	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Qizhou Zhang, T. K. Sridharan, Todd R. Hunter, Yuan Chen, Henrik Beuther, Friedrich Wyrowski	 Abstract: We performed interferometric observations of a high-mass protostellar candidate IRAS 18566+0408 in the \nh3 (J,K)=(1,1), (2,2) and (3,3) inversion transitions, the SiO J=2-1 and HCN J=1-0 lines, and the 43 and 87 GHz continuum emission using the VLA and OVRO. The 87 GHz continuum emission reveals two continuum peaks MM-1 and MM-2 along a molecular ridge. The dominant peak MM-1 coincides with a compact emission feature at 43 GHz, and arises mostly from the dust emission. For dust emissivity index $\beta$ of 1.3, the masses in the dust peaks amount to 70 \msun for MM-1, and 27 \msun for MM-2. Assuming internal heating, the central luminosities of MM-1 and MM-2 are $6 \times 10^4$ and $8 \times 10^3$ \lsun, respectively. The SiO emission reveals a well collimated outflow emanating from MM-1. The jet-like outflow is also detected in \nh3 at velocities similar to the SiO emission. The outflow, with a mass of 27 \msun, causes significant heating in the gas to temperatures of 70 K, much higher than the temperature of $\lsim 15$ K in the extended core. Compact ($< 3''$) and narrow line ($<1.5$ \kms-1) \nh3 (3,3) emission features are found associated with the outflow. They likely arise from weak population inversion in \nh3 similar to the maser emission. Toward MM-1, there is a compact \nh3 structure with a linewidth that increases from 5.5 \kms-1 FHWM measured at 3$''$ resolution to 8.7 \kms-1\ measured at 1$''$ resolution. This linewidth is much larger than the FWHM of $<$ 2 \kms-1 in the entire core, and does not appear to originate from the outflow. This large linewidth may arise from rotation/infall, or relative motions of unresolved protostellar cores. 
0704.02768	Heat Equations and the Weighted $\bar\partial$-Problem	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Andrew Raich	 Abstract: The purpose of this article is to establish regularity and pointwise upper bounds for the (relative) fundamental solution of the heat equation associated to the weighted dbar-operator in $L^2(C^n)$ for a certain class of weights. The weights depend on a parameter, and we find pointwise bounds for heat kernel, as well as its derivatives in time, space, and the parameter. We also prove cancellation conditions for the heat semigroup. We reduce the $n$-dimensional case to the one-dimensional case, and the estimates in one-dimensional case are achieved by Duhamel's principle and commutator properties of the operators. As an application, we recover estimates of heat kernels on polynomial models in $C^2$. 
0704.02769	Towards a Background Independent Quantum Gravity in Eight Dimensions	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:J. A. Nieto	 Abstract: We start a program of background independent quantum gravity in eight dimensions. We begin by considering canonical gravity \textit{a la} "Kaluza-Klein" in $D=d+1$ dimensions. We show that our canonical gravity approach can be applied to the case of self-dual gravity in four dimensions. Further, by using our previously proposed classical action of Ashtekar self-dual gravity formalism in eight dimensions, we proceed to develop the canonical approach in eight dimensions. Our construction considers different SO(8) symmetry breakings. In particular, the breaking $SO(8)=S_{R}^{7}% \times S_{L}^{7}\times G_{2}$ plays an important role in our discussion. 
0704.02770	A remark on helical waveguides	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Pavel Exner, Martin Fraas	 Abstract: Motivated by a proposal to create an optical helix-shaped waveguides for cold atoms and molecules, we discuss local perturbations which can create bound states in such a setting. This is known about a local slowdown of the twist; we show that a similar effect can result from a local tube protrusion or a change of the helix radius in correlation with its pitch angle. 
0704.02771	Bialgebra cohomology, pointed Hopf algebras, and deformations	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Mitja Mastnak, Sarah Witherspoon	 Abstract: We give explicit formulas for maps in a long exact sequence connecting bialgebra cohomology to Hochschild cohomology. We give a sufficient condition for the connecting homomorphism to be surjective. We apply these results to compute all bialgebra two-cocycles of certain Radford biproducts (bosonizations). These two-cocycles are precisely those associated to the finite dimensional pointed Hopf algebras in the recent classification of Andruskiewitsch and Schneider, in an interpretation of these Hopf algebras as graded bialgebra deformations of Radford biproducts. 
0704.02772	On Magnetic Interlayer Coupling and Proximity Effect in a  La$_{0.67}$Ca$_{0.33}$MnO$_3$(10 nm)/YBa$_2$Cu$_3$O$_7$(10 nm) Superlattice	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:J.W. Freeland, J. Chakhalian, G. Cristiani, H.-U. Habermeier, B. Keimer	 Abstract: We present a study of interlayer coupling and proximity effects in a La$_{0.66}$Ca$_{0.33}$MnO$_3$(10 nm)/YBa$_2$Cu$_3$O$_7$(10 nm) superlattice. Using element-sensitive x-ray probes, the magnetic state of Mn can be probed without seeing the strong diamagnetism of the superconductor, which makes this approach ideal to study changes in the magnetic properties across the superconducting transition. By a combined experiment using {\it in situ} transport measurements during polarized soft x-ray measurements, we were able to see no noticeable influence of the superconducting state on the magnetic properties and no evidence for magnetic coupling across a 10 nm YBCO layer. 
0704.02773	Measurement of Upper Limits for Upsilon --> gamma + R Decays	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:J.L Rosner, et al, CLEO Collaboration	 Abstract: Motivated by concerns regarding possible two-body contributions to the recently-measured inclusive Upsilon(nS)->gamma+X (n=1, 2, 3) direct photon spectra, we report on a new study of exclusive radiative decays of these narrow Upsilon(nS) resonances into two-body final states R+gamma, with R a narrow resonant hadronic state decaying into four or more charged particles. Such two-body processes are not explicitly addressed in the extant theoretical frameworks used to calculate the inclusive direct photon spectra, and must also be explicitly inserted into Monte Carlo simulations. Using data collected from the CLEO III detector at the Cornell Electron Storage Ring, we present upper limits of order 0.01 per cent for such bottomonium two-body decays as a function of the R recoil mass. 
0704.02774	Moriond QCD 2007 - Theory Summary	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Jonathan L. Rosner	 Abstract: Developments reported at the 2007 Moriond Workshop on QCD and Hadronic Interactions are reviewed and placed in a theoretical context. 
0704.02775	Results for a turbulent system with unbounded viscosities: weak  formulations, existence of solutions, boundedness, smoothness'	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Pierre Dreyfuss (IECN)	 Abstract: We consider a circulation system arising in turbulence modelling in fluid dynamics with unbounded eddy viscosities. Various notions of weak solutions are considered and compared. We establish existence and regularity results. In particular we study the boundedness of weak solutions. We also establish an existence result for a classical solution 
0704.02776	Holonomy representations which are a diagonal direct sum of two faithful  representations	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Thomas Krantz (IECN, Urmul)	 Abstract: We study holonomy representations admitting a pair of supplementary faithful sub-representations. In particular the cases where the sub-representations are isomorphic respectively dual to each other are treated. In each case we have a closer look at the classification in small dimension. 
0704.02777	Representations admitting two pairs of supplementary invariant spaces	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Lionel Bérard Bergery (IECN), Thomas Krantz (IECN)	 Abstract: We examine the lattice generated by two pairs of supplementary vector subspaces of a finite-dimensional vector space by intersection and sum, with the aim of applying the results to the study of representations admitting two pairs of supplementary invariant spaces, or one pair and a reflexive form. We show that such a representation is a direct sum of three canonical sub-representations which we characterize. We then focus on holonomy representations with the same property. 
0704.02778	Random Access Broadcast: Stability and Throughput Analysis	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Brooke Shrader, Anthony Ephremides	 Abstract: A wireless network in which packets are broadcast to a group of receivers through use of a random access protocol is considered in this work. The relation to previous work on networks of interacting queues is discussed and subsequently, the stability and throughput regions of the system are analyzed and presented. A simple network of two source nodes and two destination nodes is considered first. The broadcast service process is analyzed assuming a channel that allows for packet capture and multipacket reception. In this small network, the stability and throughput regions are observed to coincide. The same problem for a network with N sources and M destinations is considered next. The channel model is simplified in that multipacket reception is no longer permitted. Bounds on the stability region are developed using the concept of stability rank and the throughput region of the system is compared to the bounds. Our results show that as the number of destination nodes increases, the stability and throughput regions diminish. Additionally, a previous conjecture that the stability and throughput regions coincide for a network of arbitrarily many sources is supported for a broadcast scenario by the results presented in this work. 
0704.02779	The Complexity of Simple Stochastic Games	Computational Complexity (cs.CC)	Authors:Jonas Dieckelmann	 Abstract: In this paper we survey the computational time complexity of assorted simple stochastic game problems, and we give an overview of the best known algorithms associated with each problem. 
0704.02780	Evidence for Pre-SN Mass Loss in the Galactic SNR 3C 58	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Gwen C. Rudie, Robert A. Fesen (Department of Physics and Astronomy, Dartmouth College)	 Abstract: We discuss the findings of a comprehensive imaging and spectroscopic survey of the optical emission associated with the supernova remnant 3C 58 (Fesen et al. 2007) as they relate to the topic of pre-SN mass loss. Spectroscopically measured radial velocities of ~450 emission knots within the remnant show two distinct kinematic populations of optical knots: a high-velocity group with radial velocities in the range of 700 - 1100 km/s and a lower velocity group exhibiting radial expansion velocities below ~250 km/s. We interpret the high-velocity knots as ejecta from the SN explosion and the low-velocity knots as shocked circumstellar material likely resulting from pre-SN mass loss. The chemical signatures of the two populations also show marked differences. The high velocity group includes a substantial number of knots with notably higher [N II]/H-alpha ratios not seen in the lower velocity population, suggesting greater nitrogen enrichment in the SN ejecta than in the CSM. These results are compared with evidence for pre-SN mass loss in the Crab Nebula, perhaps the SNR most similar to 3C 58. These SNRs may comprise two case studies of pre-SN mass loss in relatively low mass (~8 - 10 solar masses) core-collapse SN progenitors. 
0704.02781	Enhanced activity of massive black holes by stellar capture assisted by  a self-gravitating accretion disc	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:V. Karas, L. Subr	 Abstract: We study the probability of close encounters between stars from a nuclear cluster and a massive black hole. The gravitational field of the system is dominated by the black hole in its sphere of influence. It is further modified by the cluster mean field (a spherical term) and a gaseous disc/torus (an axially symmetric term) causing a secular evolution of stellar orbits via Kozai oscillations. Intermittent phases of large eccentricity increase the chance that stars become damaged inside the tidal radius of the central hole. Such events can produce debris and lead to recurring episodes of enhanced accretion activity. We introduce an effective loss cone and associate it with tidal disruptions during the high-eccentricity phases of the Kozai cycle. By numerical integration of the trajectories forming the boundary of the loss cone we determine its shape and volume. We also include the effect of relativistic advance of pericentre. The potential of the disc has the efffect of enlarging the loss cone and, therefore, the predicted number of tidally disrupted stars should grow by factor of ~10^2. On the other hand, the effect of the cluster mean potential together with the relativistic pericentre advance act against the eccentricity oscillations. In the end we expect the tidal disruption events to be approximately ten times more frequent in comparison with the model in which the three effects -- the cluster mean field, the relativistic pericentre advance, and the Kozai mechanism -- are all ignored. The competition of different influences suppresses the predicted star disruption rate as the black hole mass increases. Hence, the process under consideration is more important for intermediate-mass black holes, M_bh~10^4M_s. 
0704.02782	Implications of "peak oil" for atmospheric CO2 and climate	Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics (physics.ao-ph)	Authors:P.A. Kharecha, J.E. Hansen (NASA GISS and Columbia Univ. Earth Institute)	 Abstract: Unconstrained CO2 emission from fossil fuel burning has been the dominant cause of observed anthropogenic global warming. The amounts of "proven" and potential fossil fuel reserves are uncertain and debated. Regardless of the true values, society has flexibility in the degree to which it chooses to exploit these reserves, especially unconventional fossil fuels and those located in extreme or pristine environments. If conventional oil production peaks within the next few decades, it may have a large effect on future atmospheric CO2 and climate change, depending upon subsequent energy choices. Assuming that proven oil and gas reserves do not greatly exceed estimates of the Energy Information Administration, and recent trends are toward lower estimates, we show that it is feasible to keep atmospheric CO2 from exceeding about 450 ppm by 2100, provided that emissions from coal, unconventional fossil fuels, and land use are constrained. Coal-fired power plants without sequestration must be phased out before mid-century to achieve this CO2 limit. It is also important to "stretch" conventional oil reserves via energy conservation and efficiency, thus averting strong pressures to extract liquid fuels from coal or unconventional fossil fuels while clean technologies are being developed for the era "beyond fossil fuels". We argue that a rising price on carbon emissions is needed to discourage conversion of the vast fossil resources into usable reserves, and to keep CO2 beneath the 450 ppm ceiling. 
0704.02783	Nonlinear Evolution of Baryon Acoustic Oscillations	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Crocce, R. Scoccimarro	 Abstract: We study the nonlinear evolution of the baryon acoustic oscillations (BAO) in the dark matter power spectrum and correlation function using renormalized perturbation theory (RPT). In a previous paper we showed that RPT successfully predicts the damping of acoustic oscillations; here we extend our calculation to the enhancement of power due to mode-coupling. We show that mode-coupling generates additional oscillations that are out of phase with those in the linear spectrum, leading to shifts in the scales of oscillation nodes defined with respect to a smooth spectrum. When Fourier transformed, these out of phase oscillations induce percent-level shifts in the acoustic peak of the two-point correlation function. We present predictions for these shifts as a function of redshift; these should be considered as a robust lower limit to the more realistic case that includes in addition redshift distortions and galaxy bias. We show that these nonlinear effects occur at very large scales, leading to a breakdown of linear theory at scales much larger than commonly thought. We discuss why virialized halo profiles are not responsible for these effects, which can be understood from basic physics of gravitational instability. Our results are in excellent agreement with numerical simulations, and can be used as a starting point for modeling BAO in future observations. To meet this end, we suggest a simple physically motivated model to correct for the shifts caused by mode-coupling. 
0704.02784	Exploring Continuous Tensegrities	Metric Geometry (math.MG)	Authors:Ted Ashton	 Abstract: A discrete tensegrity framework can be thought of as a graph in Euclidean n-space where each edge is of one of three types: an edge with a fixed length (bar) or an edge with an upper (cable) or lower (strut) bound on its length. Roth and Whiteley, in their 1981 paper "Tensegrity Frameworks", showed that in certain cases, the struts and cables can be replaced with bars when analyzing the framework for infinitesimal rigidity. In that case we call the tensegrity "bar equivalent". In specific, they showed that if there exists a set of positive weights, called a positive "stress", on the edges such that the weighted sum of the edge vectors is zero at every vertex, then the tensegrity is bar equivalent. In this paper we consider an extended version of the tensegrity framework in which the vertex set is a (possibly infinite) set of points in Euclidean n-space and the edgeset is a compact set of unordered pairs of vertices. These are called "continuous tensegrities". We show that if a continuous tensegrity has a strictly positive stress, it is bar equivalent and that it has a semipositive stress if and only if it is partially bar equivalent. We also show that if a tensegrity is minimally bar equivalent (it is bar equivalent but removing any open set of edges makes it no longer so), then it has a strictly positive stress. In particular, we examine the case where the vertices form a rectifiable curve and the possible motions of the curve are limited to local isometries of it. Our methods provide an attractive proof of the following result: There is no locally arclength preserving motion of a circle that increases any antipodal distance without decreasing some other one. 
0704.02785	Extremely Long-Lived Charged Massive Particles as A Probe for Reheating  of the Universe	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Fumihiro Takayama	 Abstract: We discuss the impact of charged massive particle big bang nucleosynthesis(CBBN) to explore the nature of the reheating of the Universe in the case that a new extremely long-lived charged massive particle(CHAMP) exists. If the mass of the CHAMP is within collider reach and it's lifetime is longer than $10^4$sec, the comparison between the CBBN prediction and observed $^6$Li abundances may indicate nonstandard reheating in the early Universe without relying on details of the decay properties. Even if the CHAMP mass is outside the reach of colliders, the cosmological considerations may provide a nontrivial hint for the existence of such very heavy long-lived CHAMPs from the late Universe if the daughter particles are the dominant component of the present dark matter. We consider a low reheating temperature model as an example of the nonstandard reheating scenarios. 
0704.02786	Writing on Dirty Paper with Resizing and its Application to Quasi-Static  Fading Broadcast Channels	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Wenyi Zhang, Shivaprasad Kotagiri, J. Nicholas Laneman	 Abstract: This paper studies a variant of the classical problem of ``writing on dirty paper'' in which the sum of the input and the interference, or dirt, is multiplied by a random variable that models resizing, known to the decoder but not to the encoder. The achievable rate of Costa's dirty paper coding (DPC) scheme is calculated and compared to the case of the decoder's also knowing the dirt. In the ergodic case, the corresponding rate loss vanishes asymptotically in the limits of both high and low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), and is small at all finite SNR for typical distributions like Rayleigh, Rician, and Nakagami. In the quasi-static case, the DPC scheme is lossless at all SNR in terms of outage probability. Quasi-static fading broadcast channels (BC) without transmit channel state information (CSI) are investigated as an application of the robustness properties. It is shown that the DPC scheme leads to an outage achievable rate region that strictly dominates that of time division. 
0704.02787	Microscopic mechanism for cold denaturation	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Cristiano L. Dias, Tapio Ala-Nissila, Mikko Karttunen, Ilpo Vattulainen, Martin Grant	 Abstract: We elucidate the mechanism of cold denaturation through constant-pressure simulations for a model of hydrophobic molecules in an explicit solvent. We find that the temperature dependence of the hydrophobic effect is the driving force/induces/facilitates cold denaturation. The physical mechanism underlying this phenomenon is identified as the destabilization of hydrophobic contact in favor of solvent separated configurations, the same mechanism seen in pressure induced denaturation. A phenomenological explanation proposed for the mechanism is suggested as being responsible for cold denaturation in real proteins. 
0704.02788	On the Conformal forms of the Robertson-Walker metric	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:M. Ibison	 Abstract: All possible transformations from the Robertson-Walker metric to those conformal to the Lorentz-Minkowski form are derived. It is demonstrated that the commonly known family of transformations and associated conformal factors are not exhaustive and that there exists another relatively less well known family of transformations with a different conformal factor in the particular case that K = -1. Simplified conformal factors are derived for the special case of maximally-symmetric spacetimes. The full set of all possible cosmologically-compatible conformal forms is presented as a comprehensive table. A product of the analysis is the determination of the set-theoretical relationships between the maximally symmetric spacetimes, the Robertson-Walker spacetimes, and functionally more general spacetimes. The analysis is preceded by a short historical review of the application of conformal metrics to Cosmology. 
0704.02789	Pseudocontinuation and cyclicity for random power series	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Evgeny Abakumov, Alexei Poltoratski	 Abstract: We prove that a random function in the Hardy space $H^2$ is a non-cyclic vector for the backward shift operator almost surely. The question of existence of a local pseudocontinuation for a random analytic function is also studied. 
0704.02790	Time-dependent Density Functional calculation of e-H scattering	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Meta van Faassen, Adam Wasserman, Eberhard Engel, Fan Zhang, Kieron Burke	 Abstract: Phase shifts for single-channel elastic electron-atom scattering are derived from time-dependent density functional theory. The H$^-$ ion is placed in a spherical box, its discrete spectrum found, and phase shifts deduced. Exact-exchange yields an excellent approximation to the ground-state Kohn-Sham potential, while the adiabatic local density approximation yields good singlet and triplet phase shifts. 
0704.02791	Coevolution of Quantum Wave Functions and the Friedmann Universe	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:W. Q. Sumner, D. Y. Sumner	 Abstract: Erwin Schrodinger (1939) proved that quantum wave functions coevolve with the curved spacetime of the Friedmann universe. Schrodinger's derivation explains the Hubble redshift of photons in an expanding universe, the energy changes of moving particles, and establishes the coevolution of atoms and other quantum systems with spacetime geometry. The assumption often made that small quantum systems are isolated and that their properties remain constant as the Friedmann universe evolves is incompatible with relativistic quantum mechanics and with general relativity. 
0704.02792	Raman spectra of L-leucine crystals	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:P.F. Facanha Filho, P.T.C. Freire, K.C.V. Lima, J. Mendes Filho, F.E.A. Melo, P.S. Pizani	 Abstract: Single crystal samples of L-leucine, C6H13NO2, a fundamental aliphatic amino acid of the human body, have been studied by Raman spectroscopy at temperatures from 300 to 430 K over the spectral range from 50 to 3100 cm-1. A tentative assignment of all bands is given. For high temperatures, several modifications on the Raman spectra were observed at about 353 K, giving evidence that the L-leucine crystal undergoes a structural phase transition. 
0704.02793	Deterministic characterization of stochastic genetic circuits	Molecular Networks (q-bio.MN)	Authors:Matthew Scott, Terence Hwa, Brian Ingalls	 Abstract: For cellular biochemical reaction systems where the numbers of molecules is small, significant noise is associated with chemical reaction events. This molecular noise can give rise to behavior that is very different from the predictions of deterministic rate equation models. Unfortunately, there are few analytic methods for examining the qualitative behavior of stochastic systems. Here we describe such a method that extends deterministic analysis to include leading-order corrections due to the molecular noise. The method allows the steady-state behavior of the stochastic model to be easily computed, facilitates the mapping of stability phase diagrams that include stochastic effects and reveals how model parameters affect noise susceptibility, in a manner not accessible to numerical simulation. By way of illustration we consider two genetic circuits: a bistable positive-feedback loop and a negative-feedback oscillator. We find in the positive feedback circuit that translational activation leads to a far more stable system than transcriptional control. Conversely, in a negative-feedback loop triggered by a positive-feedback switch, the stochasticity of transcriptional control is harnessed to generate reproducible oscillations. 
0704.02794	Strong far field coherent scattering of ultraviolet radiation by  holococcolithophores	Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)	Authors:R. Quintero-Torres, J.L. Aragon, M. Torres, M. Estrada, L. Cros	 Abstract: By considering the structure of holococcoliths (calcite plates that cover holococcolithophores, a haploid phase of the coccolithophore life cycle) as a photonic structure, we apply a discrete dipolar approximation to study the light backscattering properties of these algae. We show that some holococcolith structures have the ability to scatter the ultraviolet (UV) radiation. This property may represent an advantage for holococcolithophores possessing it, by allowing them to live higher in the water column than other coccolithophores. 
0704.02795	Laplace Operator in Networks of Thin Fibers: Spectrum Near the Threshold	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:S. Molchanov, B. Vainberg	 Abstract: Our talk at Lisbon SAMP conference was based mainly on our recent results (published in Comm. Math. Phys.) on small diameter asymptotics for solutions of the Helmgoltz equation in networks of thin fibers. The present paper contains a detailed review of these results under some assumptions which make them much more transparent. It also contains several new theorems on the structure of the spectrum near the threshold. small diameter asymptotics of the resolvent, and solutions of the evolution equation. 
0704.02796	Group amenability properties for von Neumann algebras	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Anthony T. Lau, Alan L. T. Paterson	 Abstract: In his study of amenable unitary representations, M. E. B. Bekka asked if there is an analogue for such representations of the remarkable fixed-point property for amenable groups. In this paper, we prove such a fixed-point theorem in the more general context of a $G$-amenable von Neumann algebra $M$, where $G$ is a locally compact group acting on $M$. The F{\o}lner conditions of Connes and Bekka are extended to the case where $M$ is semifinite and admits a faithful, semifinite, normal trace which is invariant under the action of $G$. 
0704.02797	The equivariant analytic index for proper groupoid actions	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Alan L. T. Paterson	 Abstract: The paper constructs the analytic index for an elliptic pseudodifferential family of $L^{m}_{\rho,\de}$-operators invariant under the proper action of a continuous family groupoid on a $G$-compact, $C^{\infty,0}$ $G$-space. 
0704.02798	On-Shell Methods in Perturbative QCD	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Zvi Bern, Lance J. Dixon, David A. Kosower	 Abstract: We review on-shell methods for computing multi-parton scattering amplitudes in perturbative QCD, utilizing their unitarity and factorization properties. We focus on aspects which are useful for the construction of one-loop amplitudes needed for phenomenological studies at the Large Hadron Collider. 
0704.02799	The analytic index for proper, Lie groupoid actions	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Alan L. T. Paterson	 Abstract: Many index theorems (both classical and in noncommutative geometry) can be interpreted in terms of a Lie groupoid acting properly on a manifold and leaving an elliptic family of pseudodifferential operators invariant. Alain Connes in his book raised the question of an index theorem in this general context. In this paper, an analytic index for many such situations is constructed. The approach is inspired by the classical families theorem of Atiyah and Singer, and the proof generalizes, to the case of proper Lie groupoid actions, some of the results proved for proper locally compact group actions by N. C. Phillips. 
0704.02800	The Fourier algebra for locally compact groupoids	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Alan L. T. Paterson	 Abstract: We introduce and investigate using Hilbert modules the properties of the {\em Fourier algebra} $A(G)$ for a locally compact groupoid $G$. We establish a duality theorem for such groupoids in terms of multiplicative module maps. This includes as a special case the classical duality theorem for locally compact groups proved by P. Eymard. 
0704.02801	Continuous family groupoids	K-Theory and Homology (math.KT)	Authors:Alan L. T. Paterson	 Abstract: In this paper, we define and investigate the properties of continuous family groupoids. This class of groupoids is necessary for investigating the groupoid index theory arising from the equivariant Atiyah-Singer index theorem for families, and is also required in noncommutative geometry. The class includes that of Lie groupoids, and the paper shows that, like Lie groupoids, continuous family groupoids always admit (an essentially unique) continuous left Haar system of smooth measures. We also show that the action of a continuous family groupoid $G$ on a continuous family $G$-space fibered over another continuous family $G$-space $Y$ can always be regarded as an action of the continuous family groupoid $G*Y$ on an ordinary $G*Y$-space. 
0704.02802	Tychonoff's theorem for locally compact space and an elementary approach  to the topology of path spaces	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Alan L. T. Paterson, Amy E. Welch	 Abstract: The path spaces of a directed graph play an important role in the study of graph $\css$. These are topological spaces that were originally constructed using groupoid and inverse semigroup techniques. In this paper, we develop a simple, purely topological, approach to this construction, based on Tychonoff's theorem. In fact, the approach is shown to work even for higher dimensional graphs satisfying the finitely aligned condition, and we construct the groupoid of the graph. Motivated by these path space results, we prove a Tychonoff theorem for an infinite, countable product of locally compact spaces. The main idea is to include certain finite products of the spaces along with the infinite product. We show that the topology is, in a reasonable sense, a pointwise topology. 
0704.02803	Cascading Behavior in Large Blog Graphs	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Jure Leskovec, Mary McGlohon, Christos Faloutsos, Natalie Glance, Matthew Hurst	 Abstract: How do blogs cite and influence each other? How do such links evolve? Does the popularity of old blog posts drop exponentially with time? These are some of the questions that we address in this work. Our goal is to build a model that generates realistic cascades, so that it can help us with link prediction and outlier detection. Blogs (weblogs) have become an important medium of information because of their timely publication, ease of use, and wide availability. In fact, they often make headlines, by discussing and discovering evidence about political events and facts. Often blogs link to one another, creating a publicly available record of how information and influence spreads through an underlying social network. Aggregating links from several blog posts creates a directed graph which we analyze to discover the patterns of information propagation in blogspace, and thereby understand the underlying social network. Not only are blogs interesting on their own merit, but our analysis also sheds light on how rumors, viruses, and ideas propagate over social and computer networks. Here we report some surprising findings of the blog linking and information propagation structure, after we analyzed one of the largest available datasets, with 45,000 blogs and ~ 2.2 million blog-postings. Our analysis also sheds light on how rumors, viruses, and ideas propagate over social and computer networks. We also present a simple model that mimics the spread of information on the blogosphere, and produces information cascades very similar to those found in real life. 
0704.02804	The Equivariant cohomology theory of twisted generalized complex  manifolds	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Yi Lin	 Abstract: It has been shown recently by Kapustin and Tomasiello that the mathematical notion of Hamiltonian actions on twisted generalized K\"ahler manifolds is in perfect agreement with the physical notion of general $(2,2)$ gauged sigma models with three-form fluxes. In this article, we study the twisted equivariant cohomology theory of Hamiltonian actions on $H$-twisted generalized complex manifolds. If the manifold satisfies the $\bar{\partial}\partial$-lemma, we establish the equivariant formality theorem. If in addition, the manifold satisfies the generalized K\"ahler condition, we prove the Kirwan injectivity in this setting. We then consider the Hamiltonian action of a torus on an $H$-twisted generalized Calabi-Yau manifold and extend to this case the Duistermaat-Heckman theorem for the push-forward measure. As a side result, we show in this paper that the generalized K\"ahler quotient of a generalized K\"ahler vector space can never have a (cohomologically) non-trivial twisting. This gives a negative answer to a question asked by physicists whether one can construct $(2,2)$ gauged linear sigma models with non-trivial fluxes. 
0704.02805	Approximating reals by sums of rationals	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Tsz Ho Chan	 Abstract: We consider the question of approximating any real number $\alpha$ by sums of $n$ rational numbers $\frac{a_1}{q_1} + \frac{a_2}{q_2} + ... + \frac{a_n}{q_n}$ with denominators $1 \leq q_1, q_2, ..., q_n \leq N$. This leads to an inquiry on approximating a real number by rational numbers with a prescribed number of prime factors in the denominator. 
0704.02806	Light projectile scattering off the Color Glass Condensate	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Kenji Fukushima, Yoshimasa Hidaka	 Abstract: We systematically compute the Gaussian average of Wilson lines inherent in the Color Glass Condensate, which provides useful formulae for evaluation of the scattering amplitude in the collision of a light projectile and a heavy target. 
0704.02807	String-derived D4 flavor symmetry and phenomenological implications	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Pyungwon Ko, Tatsuo Kobayashi, Jae-hyeon Park, Stuart Raby	 Abstract: In this paper we show how some flavor symmetries may be derived from the heterotic string, when compactified on a 6D orbifold. In the body of the paper we focus on the $D_4$ family symmetry, recently obtained in $Z_3 \times Z_2$ orbifold constructions. We show how this flavor symmetry constrains fermion masses, as well as the soft SUSY breaking mass terms. Flavor symmetry breaking can generate the hierarchy of fermion masses and at the same time the flavor symmetry suppresses large flavor changing neutral current processes. 
0704.02808	Minimum cost distributed source coding over a network	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Aditya Ramamoorthy	 Abstract: This work considers the problem of transmitting multiple compressible sources over a network at minimum cost. The aim is to find the optimal rates at which the sources should be compressed and the network flows using which they should be transmitted so that the cost of the transmission is minimal. We consider networks with capacity constraints and linear cost functions. The problem is complicated by the fact that the description of the feasible rate region of distributed source coding problems typically has a number of constraints that is exponential in the number of sources. This renders general purpose solvers inefficient. We present a framework in which these problems can be solved efficiently by exploiting the structure of the feasible rate regions coupled with dual decomposition and optimization techniques such as the subgradient method and the proximal bundle method. 
0704.02809	Search for New Physics via Single Top Production at the LHC	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Qing-Hong Cao, Jose Wudka, C.-P. Yuan	 Abstract: We consider single-top production as a probe for new physics effects at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). We argue that for natural theories a small deviation from the Standard Model tree-level couplings in this reaction can be parameterized by 3 higher dimension operators. Precision measurement of these effective couplings in the single-top events, via studying their interference effects with the SM contributions, can discriminate several new physics models. In particular, combining the production rate of three single-top production modes will provide a severe test of the Little Higgs model with T-parity. We find that at the LHC, a 5% accuracy in the measurement of the single-top cross sections would probe the new physics scale up to about $3 {\rm TeV}$. 
0704.02810	Behavior of corank one singular points on wave fronts	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Kentaro Saji, Masaaki Umehara, Kotaro Yamada	 Abstract: Let $M^2$ be an oriented 2-manifold and $f:M^2\to R^3$ a $C^\infty$-map. A point $p\in M^2$ is called a singular point if $f$ is not an immersion at $p$. The map $f$ is called a front (or wave front), if there exists a unit $C^\infty$-vector field $\nu$ such that the image of each tangent vector $df(X)$ $(X\in TM^2)$ is perpendicular to $\nu$, and the pair $(f,\nu)$ gives an immersion into $R^3\times S^2$. In our previous paper, we gave an intrinsic formulation of wave fronts in $R^3$. In this paper, we shall investigate the behavior of cuspidal edges near corank one singular points and establish Gauss-Bonnet-type formulas under the intrinsic formulation. 
0704.02811	On Algebraic Decoding of $q$-ary Reed-Muller and Product-Reed-Solomon  Codes	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Nandakishore Santhi	 Abstract: We consider a list decoding algorithm recently proposed by Pellikaan-Wu \cite{PW2005} for $q$-ary Reed-Muller codes $\mathcal{RM}_q(\ell, m, n)$ of length $n \leq q^m$ when $\ell \leq q$. A simple and easily accessible correctness proof is given which shows that this algorithm achieves a relative error-correction radius of $\tau \leq (1 - \sqrt{{\ell q^{m-1}}/{n}})$. This is an improvement over the proof using one-point Algebraic-Geometric codes given in \cite{PW2005}. The described algorithm can be adapted to decode Product-Reed-Solomon codes. We then propose a new low complexity recursive algebraic decoding algorithm for Reed-Muller and Product-Reed-Solomon codes. Our algorithm achieves a relative error correction radius of $\tau \leq \prod_{i=1}^m (1 - \sqrt{k_i/q})$. This technique is then proved to outperform the Pellikaan-Wu method in both complexity and error correction radius over a wide range of code rates. 
0704.02812	Fermions in Self-dual Vortex Background on a String-like Defect	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Yu-Xiao Liu, Li Zhao, Xin-Hui Zhang, Yi-Shi Duan	 Abstract: By using the self-dual vortex background on extra two-dimensional Riemann surfaces in 5+1 dimensions, the localization mechanism of bulk fermions on a string-like defect with the exponentially decreasing warp-factor is obtained. We give the conditions under which localized spin 1/2 and 3/2 fermions can be obtained. 
0704.02813	Motzkin numbers of higher rank: Generating function and explicit  expression	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Toufik Mansour, Matthias Schork, Yidong Sun	 Abstract: The generating function and an explicit expression is derived for the (colored) Motzkin numbers of higher rank introduced recently. Considering the special case of rank one yields the corresponding results for the conventional colored Motzkin numbers for which in addition a recursion relation is given. 
0704.02814	A Revised Generalized Kolmogorov-Sinai-like Entropy and Markov Shifts	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:Qiang Liu, Shou-Li Peng	 Abstract: The Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy in the sense of Tsallis under Bernoulli shifts was obtained by Meson and Vericat [J. Math. Phys. 37, 4480(1996)]. In this paper, we propose a revised generalized Kolmogorov-Sinai-q entropy under Markov shifts. The form of this generalized entropy with factor q is nonextensive. The new generalized entropy contains the classical Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy and Renyi entropy as well as Bernoulli shifts as special cases. Applying the generalized entropy we discuss its approximate behavior qualitatively, the entropy rate and the sensitive value q^* of the nonextensive parameter q, which may exit in the interval (-2,2) nearby where the generalized entropy return to the classical K-S entropy. 
0704.02815	Comments on six papers published by S.P. Anjali Devi and R. Kandasamy	Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)	Authors:Asterios Pantokratoras	 Abstract: Comments on six papers published by S.P. Anjali Devi and R. Kandasamy in Heat and Mass Transfer, ZAMM, Mechanics Research Communications, International Communications in Heat and Mass Transfer, Communications in Numerical Methods in Engineering, Journal of Computational and Applied Mechanics In conclusion all the above papers are of very low quality, written without care and are partly or completely wrong. 
0704.02816	Unification and Dark Matter in a Minimal Scalar Extension of the  Standard Model	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Mariangela Lisanti, Jay G. Wacker	 Abstract: The six Higgs doublet model is a minimal extension of the Standard Model that addresses dark matter and gauge coupling unification. Another Higgs doublet in a 5 representation of a discrete symmetry group, such as S_6, is added to the SM. The lightest components of the 5-Higgs are neutral, stable and serve as dark matter so long as the discrete symmetry is not broken. Direct and indirect detection signals, as well as collider signatures are discussed. The five-fold multiplicity of the dark matter decreases its mass and typically helps make the dark matter more visible in upcoming experiments. 
0704.02817	Symmetric Crystals for $\gl_\infty$	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Naoya Enomoto, Masaki Kashiwara	 Abstract: In the preceding paper, we formulated a conjecture on the relations between certain classes of irreducible representations of affine Hecke algebras of type B and symmetric crystals for $\gl_\infty$. In the present paper, we prove the existence of the symmetric crystal and the global basis for $\gl_\infty$. 
0704.02818	Compact starburst in the central regions of Seyfert galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Kotaro Kohno (1), Koichiro Nakanishi (2), Masatoshi Imanishi (2) ((1) Institute of Astronomy, Univ. of Tokyo, (2) National Astronomical Observatory of Japan)	 Abstract: We have conducted a high-resolution ``3D'' imaging survey of the CO(1--0), HCN(1--0), and HCO$^+$(1--0) lines toward the central a few kpc regions of the Seyfert and starburst galaxies in the local universe using the Nobeyama Millimeter Array. We detected luminous HCN(1--0) emissions toward a considerable fraction of these Seyfert galaxies (10 of 12 in our sub-sample), which indicated that some of these Seyfert galaxies, such as NGC 3079, NGC 3227, NGC 4051, NGC 6764, and NGC 7479, are indeed accompanied with compact nuclear starburst, given the tight correlation between the HCN(1--0) luminosity and the star formation rate among star-forming galaxies. However, we suggest that the elevated HCN(1--0) emission from some of these Seyfert galaxies, including NGC 1068, NGC 1097, NGC 5033, and NGC 5194, does not signify the presence of massive starbursts there. This is because these Seyfert nuclei show abnormally high HCN(1--0)/HCO$^+$(1--0) ratios (2--3), which were never observed in the starburst nuclei in our sample. This could be attributed to the overabundance of HCN molecules in the X-ray dominated regions (XDRs) at the centers of these Seyfert galaxies. 
0704.02819	Wave scattering by small impedance particles in a medium	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:A.G.Ramm	 Abstract: The theory of acoustic wave scattering by many small bodies is developed for bodies with impedance boundary condition. It is shown that if one embeds many small particles in a bounded domain, filled with a known material, then one can create a new material with the properties very different from the properties of the original material. Moreover, these very different properties occur although the total volume of the embedded small particles is negligible compared with the volume of the original material. 
0704.02820	Topology of HI in the Large Magellanic Cloud	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Kim, C. Park	 Abstract: We have analyzed the HI aperture synthesis image of the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC), using an objective and quantitative measure of topology to understand the HI distribution hosting a number of holes and clumps of various sizes in the medium. The HI distribution shows different topology at four different chosen scales. At the smallest scales explored (19-29 pc), the HI mass is distributed in such a way that numerous clumps are embedded on top of a low density background. At the larger scales from 73 to 194 pc, it shows a generic hole topology. These holes might have been formed mainly by stellar winds from hot stars. At the scales from 240 to 340 pc, slightly above the disk scale-height of the gaseous disk, major clumps in the HI map change the distribution to have a slight clump topology. These clumps include the giant cloud associations in the spiral arms and the thick filaments surrounding superholes. At the largest scales studied (390-485 pc), the hole topology is present again. Responsible to the hole topology at this scale are a few superholes which seem mainly associated with supernova explosions in the outer disk. The gaps between the bar and spiral arms have a minor effect on the topology at this scale. 
0704.02821	IRAC Observations of CO J=4-3 High-Velocity Cloud in the 30 Doradus  Complex in the Large Magellanic Cloud	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:H-S. Kim, S. Kim, J.Y. Bak, M. Garcia, B. Brandl, K. Xiao, W. Walsh, R.C. Smith, S. Youn	 Abstract: We compare the CO 2-1 observations against previously taken CO 4-3 observations and analyze the spatial distribution of young stellar objects (YSO's) within the cloud using the Spitzer IRAC observations of the 30 Doradus complex. Both peaks of CO 2-1 and 4-3 emitting clouds coincide with the densest region of the filaments where multiple shells are colliding. We find that the YSO's are clustered in the southern ridge of the warm and dense molecular gas clouds traced by CO J=4-3, indicating a filamentary structure of star formation throughout the 30 Doradus. We also find that some of Class I YSO's candidates which are likely to be associated with a high-velocity component of CO 4-3 emitting clouds are present. This is a bona fide place where the triggered star formation had happened and newly formed stars may have produced such a high-velocity outflow interacting with the surrounding molecular cloud material. 
0704.02822	QED calculation of the 2p1/2-2s and 2p3/2-2s transition energies and the  ground-state hyperfine splitting in lithiumlike scandium	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:Y. S. Kozhedub, D. A. Glazov, A. N. Artemyev, N. S. Oreshkina, V. M. Shabaev, I. I. Tupitsyn, A. V. Volotka, G. Plunien	 Abstract: We present the most accurate up-to-date theoretical values of the {2p_{1/2}}-{2s} and {2p_{3/2}}-{2s} transition energies and the ground-state hyperfine splitting in ${\rm Sc}^{18+}$. All two- and three-electron contributions to the energy values up to the two-photon level are treated in the framework of bound-state QED without $\aZ$-expansion. The interelectronic interaction beyond the two-photon level is taken into account by means of the large-scale configuration-interaction Dirac-Fock-Sturm (CI-DFS) method. The relativistic recoil correction is calculated with many-electron wave functions in order to take into account the electron-correlation effect. The accuracy of the transition energy values is improved by a factor of five compared to the previous calculations. The CI-DFS calculation of interelectronic-interaction effects and the evaluation of the QED correction in an effective screening potential provide significant improvement for the $2s$ hyperfine splitting. The results obtained are in a good agreement with recently published experimental data. 
0704.02823	Strong coupling limit/region of lattice QCD	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:A. Ohnishi, N. Kawamoto, K. Miura, K. Tsubakihara, H. Maekawa (Hokkaido U.)	 Abstract: We study the phase diagram of quark matter and nuclear properties based on the strong coupling expansion of lattice QCD. Both of baryon and finite coupling correction are found to have effects to extend the hadron phase to a larger mu direction relative to Tc. In a chiral RMF model with logarithmic sigma potential derived in the strong coupling limit of lattice QCD, we can avoid the chiral collapse and normal and hypernuclei properties are well described. 
0704.02824	Sums of squares over totally real fields are rational sums of squares	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:Christopher J. Hillar	 Abstract: Let $K$ be a totally real number field with Galois closure $L$. We prove that if $f \in \mathbb Q[x_1,...,x_n]$ is a sum of $m$ squares in $K[x_1,...,x_n]$, then $f$ is a sum of \[4m \cdot 2^{[L: \mathbb Q]+1} {[L: \mathbb Q] +1 \choose 2}\] squares in $\mathbb Q[x_1,...,x_n]$. Moreover, our argument is constructive and generalizes to the case of commutative $K$-algebras. This result gives a partial resolution to a question of Sturmfels on the algebraic degree of certain semidefinite programing problems. 
0704.02825	Existence of One-Body Barrier Revealed in Deep Sub-Barrier Fusion	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Takatoshi Ichikawa, Kouichi Hagino, Akira Iwamoto	 Abstract: Based on the adiabatic picture for heavy-ion reactions, in which the neck formation in the one-body system is taken into account, we propose a two-step model for fusion cross sections at deep subbarrier energies. This model consists of the capture process in the two-body potential pocket, which is followed by the penetration of the adiabatic one-body potential to reach a compound state after the touching configuration. We describe the former process with the coupled-channels framework, while the latter with the WKB approximation by taking into account the coordinate dependent inertia mass. The effect of the one-body barrier is important at incident energies below the potential energy at the touching configuration. We show that this model well accounts for the steep fall-off phenomenon of fusion cross sections at deep subbarrier energies for the $^{64}$Ni+$^{64}$Ni and $^{58}$Ni+$^{58}$Ni reactions. 
0704.02826	Analytic crossing probabilities for certain barriers by Brownian motion	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Nabil Kahale	 Abstract: We calculate crossing probabilities and one-sided last exit time densities for a class of moving barriers on an interval $[0,T]$ via Schwartz distributions. We derive crossing probabilities and first hitting time densities for another class of barriers on $[0,T]$ by proving a Schwartz distribution version of the method of images. Analytic expressions for crossing probabilities and related densities are given for new explicit and semi-explicit barriers. 
0704.02827	Systematics of threshold incident energy for deep sub-barrier fusion  hindrance	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Takatoshi Ichikawa, Kouichi Hagino, Akira Iwamoto	 Abstract: We systematically evaluate the potential energy at the touching configuration for heavy-ion reactions using various potential models. We point out that the energy at the touching point, especially that estimated with the Krappe-Nix-Sierk (KNS) potential, strongly correlates with the threshold incident energy for steep fall-off of fusion cross sections observed recently for several systems at extremely low energies. This clearly indicates that the steep fall-off phenomenon can be attributed to the dynamics after the target and projectile touch with each other, e.g., the tunneling process and the nuclear saturation property in the overlap region. 
0704.02828	Are "EIT Waves" Fast-Mode MHD Waves?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. J. Wills-Davey, C. E. DeForest, J. O. Stenflo	 Abstract: We examine the nature of large-scale, coronal, propagating wave fronts (``EIT waves'') and find they are incongruous with solutions using fast-mode MHD plane-wave theory. Specifically, we consider the following properties: non-dispersive single pulse manifestions, observed velocities below the local Alfven speed, and different pulses which travel at any number of constant velocities, rather than at the ``predicted'' fast-mode speed. We discuss the possibility of a soliton-like explanation for these phenomena, and show how it is consistent with the above-mentioned aspects. 
0704.02829	Extrinsic Size Effect in Piezoresponse Force Microscopy of Thin Films	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Anna N. Morozovska, Sergei V. Svechnikov, Eugene A. Eliseev, Sergei V. Kalinin	 Abstract: The extrinsic size effect in Piezoresponse Force Microscopy of ferroelectric and piezoelectric thin films on non-polar dielectric substrate is analyzed. Analytical expressions for effective piezoresponse, object transfer function components, and Rayleigh two-point resolution are obtained. These results can be broadly applied for effective piezoelectric response calculations in thin piezoelectric and ferroelectric films as well as surface polar layers e.g. in organic materials and bio-polymers. In particular, the effective piezoresponse strongly decreases with film thickness whereas the sharpness of domain stripes image increases due to the object transfer function spectrum broadening. 
0704.02830	Low-Energy Electrodynamics of Heavy Quasiparticles in ZrZn2	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Shin-ichi Kimura, Noriaki Kimura, Haruyoshi Aoki	 Abstract: The temperature dependence of the optical conductivity spectrum of an itinerant ferromagnetic material, ZrZn$_2$, was obtained and the dynamical effective mass and the scattering rate were derived. A renormalized Drude peak with a heavy effective mass developed at low temperatures. The effective mass rapidly increased below $\hbar\omega$ = 10 meV and at 10 K it was observed to be 3 times heavier than that at 300 K. The scattering rate also rapidly decreased below 10 meV at 10 K. These results indicate the creation of heavy quasiparticles at low temperatures due to spin fluctuations. 
0704.02831	White-light parametric instabilities in plasmas	Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)	Authors:J. E. Santos, L. O. Silva, R. Bingham	 Abstract: Parametric instabilities driven by partially coherent radiation in plasmas are described by a generalized statistical Wigner-Moyal set of equations, formally equivalent to the full wave equation, coupled to the plasma fluid equations. A generalized dispersion relation for Stimulated Raman Scattering driven by a partially coherent pump field is derived, revealing a growth rate dependence, with the coherence width $\sigma$ of the radiation field, scaling with $1/\sigma$ for backscattering (three-wave process), and with $1/\sigma^{1/2}$ for direct forward scattering (four-wave process). Our results demonstrate the possibility to control the growth rates of these instabilities by properly using broadband pump radiation fields. 
0704.02832	Endogenous and exogenous dynamics of pressure fluctuations in an  impinging entrained-flow gasifier	Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)	Authors:Miao-Ren Niu, Qin-Feng Liang, Wei-Xing Zhou, Fu-Chen Wang, Zun-Hong Yu (ECUST)	 Abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to a fatal error in the analysis. The manuscript was submitted to Chemical Engineering Science. To clarify the situation, we copy the main comment from an anonymous referee here: "To my understanding, the authors analyze i = 1 ... 63 time series and calculate their mean and standard deviation. These time series correspond to individual, single ignition processes. Is this correct? If yes, these processes, as Fig. 3 shows very clearly, are not stationary, and the pressure difference (i.e., the signal) quickly decays to zero. In this case both the mean and the standard deviation are poorly defined, for example because both depend in a trivial fashion on the observation period T. I am not aware of any study (including those cited by the authors) which allows for any conclusion from such non-stationary signals. The results of Menezes and Barabasi are strictly only valid for stationary time series, and they cannot be applied at all in this case." We agree with this insightful comment that our data are not stationary and the method adopted in our manuscript does not apply. We do not see any possibility to correct this error and decide to withdraw it. We would like to thank gratefully the referee and apologize for any inconvenience caused by our oversight. 
0704.02833	Sharp Global Bounds for the Hessian on Pseudo-Hermitian Manifolds	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Sagun Chanillo, Juan J. Manfredi	 Abstract: We find sharp bounds for the norm inequality on a Pseudo-hermitian manifold, where the L^2 norm of all second derivatives of the function involving horizontal derivatives is controlled by the L^2 norm of the sub-Laplacian. Perturbation allows us to get a-priori bounds for solutions to sub-elliptic PDE in non-divergence form with bounded measurable coefficients. The method of proof is through a Bochner technique. The Heisenberg group is seen to be en extremal manifold for our inequality in the class of manifolds whose Ricci curvature is non-negative. 
0704.02834	An analogue of Gutzmer's formula for Hermite expansions	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:S. Thangavelu	 Abstract: We prove an analogue of Gutzmer's formula for Hermite expansions. As a consequence we obtain a new proof of a characterisation of the image of $ L^2(\R^n) $ under the Hermite semigroup. We also obtain some new orthogonality relations for complexified Hermite functions. 
0704.02835	Simplified Chain Inflation	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Qing-Guo Huang	 Abstract: We propose a simplified chain inflation model and calculate the primordial power spectra of the scalar and tensor fluctuations. The spectral index and the tensor-scalar ratio are respectively 0.972 and 0.089 which are consistent with present cosmological observations. 
0704.02836	An International Ultraviolet Explorer Archival Study of Dwarf Novae in  Outburst	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ryan T.Hamilton, Joel A. Urban, Edward M. Sion, Adric R. Riedel, Elysse N. Voyer, John T. Marcy, Sarah L. Lakatos	 Abstract: We present a synthetic spectral analysis of nearly the entire far ultraviolet International Ultraviolet Explorer (IUE) archive of spectra of dwarf novae in or near outburst. The study includes 46 systems of all dwarf nova subtypes both above and below the period gap. The spectra were uniformly analyzed using synthetic spectral codes for optically thick accretion disks and stellar photospheres along with the best-available distance measurements or estimates. We present newly estimated accretion rates and discuss the implications of our study for disk accretion physics and CV evolution. 
0704.02837	Clump Lifetimes and the Initial Mass Function	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Paul C. Clark, Ralf S. Klessen, Ian A. Bonnell	 Abstract: Recent studies of dense clumps/cores in a number of regions of low-mass star formation have shown that the mass distribution of these clumps closely resembles the initial mass function (IMF) of field stars. One possible interpretation of these observations is that we are witnessing the fragmentation of the clouds into the IMF, and the observed clumps are bound pre-stellar cores. In this paper, we highlight a potential difficulty in this interpretation, namely that clumps of varying mass are likely to have systematically varying lifetimes. This timescale problem can effectively destroy the similarity bewteen the clump and stellar mass functions, such that a stellar-like clump mass function (CMF) results in a much steeper stellar IMF. We also discuss some ways in which this problem may be avoided. 
0704.02838	Kirillov-Reshetikhin conjecture : the general case	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:David Hernandez	 Abstract: We prove the Kirillov-Reshetikhin (KR) conjecture in the general case : for all twisted quantum affine algebras we prove that the characters of KR modules solve the twisted Q-system and we get explicit formulas for the character of their tensor products (the untwisted simply-laced case was treated by Najakima, and the untwisted case by the author). The proof is uniform and provides several new developments for the representation theory of twisted quantum affine algebras, including twisted Frenkel-Reshetikhin q-characters (expected by Frenkel-Reshetikhin and Frenkel-Mukhin). We also prove the twisted T-system. As an application we get explicit formulas for the twisted q-characters of fundamental representations for all types, including the formulas for types D_4^{(3)}, E_6^{(2)} conjectured by Reshetikhin. We prove the formulas for KR modules in types A_n^{(2)} and D_4^{(3)} conjectured by Kuniba-Suzuki. Eventually our results imply the conjectural branching rules [HKOTT] to the quantum subalgebra of finite type. 
0704.02839	The SAURON project - XI. Stellar Populations from Absorption Line  Strength Maps of 24 Early-Type Spirals	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Reynier F. Peletier (1), Jesus Falcon-Barroso (2,3), Roland Bacon (4), Michele Cappellari (5,3), Roger L. Davies (5), P.T. de Zeeuw (3), Eric Emsellem (4), Katia Ganda (1), Davor Krajnovic (5), Harald Kuntschner (6), Richard M. McDermid (3), Marc Sarzi (7), Glenn van de Ven (8,3) ((1) Kapteyn Institute, (2) ESTEC, (3) Sterrewacht Leiden, (4) Universite Lyon 1, CRAL (5) Oxford, (6) ESO, (7) CfAR University of Hertfordshire, (8) IAS Princeton)	 Abstract: We present absorption line strength maps of a sample of 24 representative early-type spiral galaxies, mostly of type Sa, obtained as part of the SAURON survey of nearby galaxies using our custom-built integral-field spectrograph. Using high-quality spectra, spatially binned to a constant signal-to-noise, we measure several key age, metallicity and abundance ratio sensitive indices from the Lick/IDS system over a contiguous two-dimensional field including bulge and inner disc. We present maps of H beta, Fe 5015 and Mg b, for each galaxy The absorption line maps show that many galaxies contain some younger populations (<= 1 Gyr), distributed in small or large inner discs, or in circumnuclear star forming rings. In many cases these young stars are formed in circumnuclear mini-starbursts, which are dominating the light in the centres of some of the early-type spirals. These mini-starburst cause a considerable scatter in index-index diagrams such as Mg b- H beta and Mg b -Fe 5015, more than is measured for early-type galaxies. We find that the central regions of Sa galaxies display a wide range in ages, even within the galaxies. 50% of the sample show velocity dispersion drops in their centres. All of the galaxies of our sample lie on or below the Mg b- $\sigma$ relation for elliptical galaxies in the Coma cluster, and above the H beta absorption line - $\sigma$ relation for elliptical galaxies. If those relations are considered to be relations for the oldest local galaxies we see that our sample of spirals has a considerable scatter in age, with the largest scatter at the lowest $\sigma$. This is in disagreement with highly inclined samples, in which generally only old stellar populations are found in the central regions. All this can be understood if ... (see paper for rest of abstract) 
0704.02840	Improved Schwinger-DeWitt techniques for higher-derivative perturbations  of operator determinants	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Damiano Anselmi, Anna Benini	 Abstract: We consider higher-derivative perturbations of quantum gravity and quantum field theories in curved space and investigate tools to calculate counterterms and short-distance expansions of Feynman diagrams. In the case of single higher-derivative insertions we derive a closed formula that relates the perturbed one-loop counterterms to the unperturbed Schwinger-DeWitt coefficients. In the more general case, we classify the contributions to the short-distance expansion and outline a number of simplification methods. Certain difficulties of the common differential technique in the presence of higher-derivative perturbations are avoided by a systematic use of the Campbell-Baker-Hausdorff formula, which in some cases reduces the computational effort considerably. 
0704.02841	A High-Throughput Cross-Layer Scheme for Distributed Wireless Ad Hoc  Networks	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Athina P. Petropulu, Lun Dong, H. Vincent Poor	 Abstract: In wireless ad hoc networks, distributed nodes can collaboratively form an antenna array for long-distance communications to achieve high energy efficiency. In recent work, Ochiai, et al., have shown that such collaborative beamforming can achieve a statistically nice beampattern with a narrow main lobe and low sidelobes. However, the process of collaboration introduces significant delay, since all collaborating nodes need access to the same information. In this paper, a technique that significantly reduces the collaboration overhead is proposed. It consists of two phases. In the first phase, nodes transmit locally in a random access fashion. Collisions, when they occur, are viewed as linear mixtures of the collided packets. In the second phase, a set of cooperating nodes acts as a distributed antenna system and beamform the received analog waveform to one or more faraway destinations. This step requires multiplication of the received analog waveform by a complex number, which is independently computed by each cooperating node, and which enables separation of the collided packets based on their final destination. The scheme requires that each node has global knowledge of the network coordinates. The proposed scheme can achieve high throughput, which in certain cases exceeds one. 
0704.02842	Quadrature formulas for the Laplace and Mellin transforms	Numerical Analysis (math.NA)	Authors:Rafael G. Campos, Francisco Mejia	 Abstract: A discrete Laplace transform and its inversion formula are obtained by using a quadrature of the continuous Fourier transform which is given in terms of Hermite polynomials and its zeros. This approach yields a convergent discrete formula for the two-sided Laplace transform if the function to be transformed falls off rapidly to zero and satisfy certain conditions of integrability, achieving convergence also for singular functions. The inversion formula becomes a quadrature formula for the Bromwich integral. This procedure also yields a quadrature formula for the Mellin transform and its corresponding inversion formula that can be generalized straightforwardly for functions of several variables. 
0704.02843	The 2d Gross-Neveu Model at Finite Temperature and Density with Finite  Corrections	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Jean-Loic Kneur, Marcus Benghi Pinto, Rudnei O. Ramos	 Abstract: We use the linear $\delta$ expansion, or optimized perturbation theory, to evaluate the effective potential for the two dimensional Gross-Neveu model at finite temperature and density obtaining analytical equations for the critical temperature, chemical potential and fermionic mass which include finite $N$ corrections. Our results seem to improve over the traditional large-N predictions. 
0704.02844	Kahane-Khinchin type Averages	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Omer Friedland	 Abstract: We prove a Kahane-Khinchin type result with a few random vectors, which are distributed independently with respect to an arbitrary log-concave probability measure on $\R^n$. This is an application of small ball estimate and Chernoff's method, that has been recently used in the context of Asymptotic Geometric Analysis in [1], [2]. 
0704.02845	Primitive flag-transitive generalized hexagons and octagons	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Csaba Schneider, Hendrik Van Maldeghem	 Abstract: Suppose that an automorphism group $G$ acts flag-transitively on a finite generalized hexagon or octagon $\cS$, and suppose that the action on both the point and line set is primitive. We show that $G$ is an almost simple group of Lie type, that is, the socle of $G$ is a simple Chevalley group. 
0704.02846	Interactions and star formation activity in Wolf-Rayet galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ángel R. López-Sánchez, César Esteban (Instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias, IAC, SPAIN)	 Abstract: We present the main results of the PhD Thesis carried out by L\'opez-S\'anchez (2006), in which a detailed morphological, photometrical and spectroscopical analysis of a sample of 20 Wolf-Rayet (WR) galaxies was realized. The main aims are the study of the star formation and O and WR stellar populations in these galaxies and the role that interactions between low surface companion objects have in the triggering of the bursts. We analyze the morphology, stellar populations, physical conditions, chemical abundances and kinematics of the ionized gas, as well as the star-formation activity of each system. 
0704.02847	Gaussian conditional independence relations have no finite complete  characterization	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Seth Sullivant	 Abstract: We show that there can be no finite list of conditional independence relations which can be used to deduce all conditional independence implications among Gaussian random variables. To do this, we construct, for each $n> 3$ a family of $n$ conditional independence statements on $n$ random variables which together imply that $X_1 \ind X_2$, and such that no subset have this same implication. The proof relies on binomial primary decomposition. 
0704.02848	Algebraic cycles on the relative symmetric powers and on the relative  Jacobian of a family of curves. I	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Alexander Polishchuk	 Abstract: In this paper we construct and study the actions of certain deformations of the Lie algebra of Hamiltonians on the plane on the Chow groups (resp., cohomology) of the relative symmetric powers ${\cal C}^{[\bullet]}$ and the relative Jacobian ${\cal J}$ of a family of curves ${\cal C}/S$. As one of the applications, we show that in the case of a single curve $C$ this action induces a integral form of a Lefschetz $\operatorname{sl}_2$-action on the Chow groups of $C^{[N]}$. Another application gives a new grading on the ring of 0-cycles on the Jacobian $J$ of $C$ (with respect to the Pontryagin product) and equips it with an action of the Lie algebra of vector fields on the line. We also define the groups of tautological classes in $CH^*({\cal C}^{[\bullet]})$ and in $CH^*({\cal J})$ and prove for them analogs of the properties established in the case of the Jacobian of a single curve by Beauville in math.AG/0204188. We also show that the our algebras of operators preserve the subrings of tautological cycles and act on them via some explicit differential operators. 
0704.02849	On the Complement of the Projective Hull in C^n	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Blaine Lawson, John Wermer	 Abstract: We prove that if $K$ is a compact subset of an affine variety O = P^n - D (where D is a projective hypersuface), and if K is a compact subset of a closed analytic subvariety V \subset O, then the projective hull K^ of K has the property that K^ \cap O is contained in V. If V is smooth and 1-dimensional, then K^ \cap O is also closed in O. The result has applications to graphs in C^2 of functions in the disk algebra. 
0704.02850	Dynamical Complexity, Intermittent Turbulence, Coarse-Grained  Dissipation, Criticality and Multifractal Processes	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Tom Chang, Cheng-chin Wu	 Abstract: The ideas of dynamical complexity induced intermittent turbulence by sporadic localized interactions of coherent structures are discussed. In particular, we address the phenomenon of magnetic reconfiguration due to coarse-grained dissipation as well as the interwoven connection between criticality and multifractal processes. Specific examples are provided. 
0704.02851	Bounds on quark mass matrices elements due to measured properties of the  mixing matrix and present values of the quark masses	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:S.Chaturvedi, V.Gupta, G.Sanchez-Colon	 Abstract: We obtain constraints on possible structures of mass matrices in the quark sector by using as experimental restrictions the determined values of the quark masses at the $M_Z$ energy scale, the magnitudes of the quark mixing matrix elements $V_{\rm ud}$, $V_{\rm us}$, $V_{\rm cd}$, and $V_{\rm cs}$, and the Jarlskog invariant $J(V)$. Different cases of specific mass matrices are examined in detail. The quality of the fits for the Fritzsch and Stech type mass matrices is about the same with $\chi^2/{\rm dof}=4.23/3=1.41$ and $\chi^2/{\rm dof}=9.10/4=2.28$, respectively. The fit for a simple generalization (one extra parameter) of the Fritzsch type matrices, in the physical basis, is much better with $\chi^2/{\rm dof}=1.89/4=0.47$. For comparison we also include the results using the quark masses at the 2 GeV energy scale. The fits obtained at this energy scale are similar to that at $M_Z$ energy scale, implying that our results are unaffected by the evolution of the quark masses from 2 to 91 GeV. 
0704.02852	Nature-Inspired Interconnects for Self-Assembled Large-Scale  Network-on-Chip Designs	Hardware Architecture (cs.AR)	Authors:Christof Teuscher	 Abstract: Future nano-scale electronics built up from an Avogadro number of components needs efficient, highly scalable, and robust means of communication in order to be competitive with traditional silicon approaches. In recent years, the Networks-on-Chip (NoC) paradigm emerged as a promising solution to interconnect challenges in silicon-based electronics. Current NoC architectures are either highly regular or fully customized, both of which represent implausible assumptions for emerging bottom-up self-assembled molecular electronics that are generally assumed to have a high degree of irregularity and imperfection. Here, we pragmatically and experimentally investigate important design trade-offs and properties of an irregular, abstract, yet physically plausible 3D small-world interconnect fabric that is inspired by modern network-on-chip paradigms. We vary the framework's key parameters, such as the connectivity, the number of switch nodes, the distribution of long- versus short-range connections, and measure the network's relevant communication characteristics. We further explore the robustness against link failures and the ability and efficiency to solve a simple toy problem, the synchronization task. The results confirm that (1) computation in irregular assemblies is a promising and disruptive computing paradigm for self-assembled nano-scale electronics and (2) that 3D small-world interconnect fabrics with a power-law decaying distribution of shortcut lengths are physically plausible and have major advantages over local 2D and 3D regular topologies. 
0704.02853	Toward getting finite results from N=4 SYM with alpha'-corrections	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:I. Y. Park	 Abstract: We take our first step toward getting finite results from the alpha'-corrected D=4 N=4 SYM theory with emphasis on the field theory techniques. Starting with the classical action of N=4 SYM with the leading alpha'-corrections, we examine new divergence at one loop due to the presence of the alpha'-terms. The new vertices do not introduce additional divergence to the propagators or to the three-point correlators. However they do introduce new divergence, e.g., to the scalar four-point function which should be canceled by extra counter-terms. We expect that the counter-terms will appear in the 1PI effective action that is obtained by considering the string annulus diagram. We work out the structure of the divergence and comment on an application to the anomalous dimension of the SYM operators in the context of AdS/CFT. 
0704.02854	Coupled-cluster theory for three-body Hamiltonians	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:G. Hagen, T. Papenbrock, D.J. Dean, A. Schwenk, A. Nogga, M. Wloch, P. Piecuch	 Abstract: We derive coupled-cluster equations for three-body Hamiltonians. The equations for the one- and two-body cluster amplitudes are presented in a factorized form that leads to an efficient numerical implementation. We employ low-momentum two- and three-nucleon interactions and calculate the binding energy of He-4. The results show that the main contribution of the three-nucleon interaction stems from its density-dependent zero-, one-, and two-body terms that result from the normal ordering of the Hamiltonian in coupled-cluster theory. The residual three-body terms that remain after normal ordering can be neglected. 
0704.02855	The generator coordinate method in time-dependent density-functional  theory: memory made simple	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:E. Orestes, K. Capelle, A. B. F. da Silva, C. A. Ullrich	 Abstract: The generator coordinate (GC) method is a variational approach to the quantum many-body problem in which interacting many-body wave functions are constructed as superpositions of (generally nonorthogonal) eigenstates of auxiliary Hamiltonians containing a deformation parameter. This paper presents a time-dependent extension of the GC method as a new approach to improve existing approximations of the exchange-correlation (XC) potential in time-dependent density-functional theory (TDDFT). The time-dependent GC method is shown to be a conceptually and computationally simple tool to build memory effects into any existing adiabatic XC potential. As an illustration, the method is applied to driven parametric oscillations of two interacting electrons in a harmonic potential (Hooke's atom). It is demonstrated that a proper choice of time-dependent generator coordinates in conjunction with the adiabatic local-density approximation reproduces the exact linear and nonlinear two-electron dynamics quite accurately, including features associated with double excitations that cannot be captured by TDDFT in the adiabatic approximation. 
0704.02856	State preparation and dynamics of ultracold atoms in higher lattice  orbitals	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Torben Mueller, Simon Foelling, Artur Widera, Immanuel Bloch	 Abstract: We report on the realization of a multi-orbital system with ultracold atoms in the excited bands of a 3D optical lattice by selectively controlling the band population along a given lattice direction. The lifetime of the atoms in the excited band is found to be considerably longer (10-100 times) than the characteristic time scale for inter-site tunneling, thus opening the path for orbital selective many-body physics with ultracold atoms. Upon exciting the atoms from an initial lowest band Mott insulating state to higher lying bands, we observe the dynamical emergence of coherence in 1D (and 2D), compatible with Bose-Einstein condensation to a non-zero momentum state. 
0704.02857	Modern Coding Theory: The Statistical Mechanics and Computer Science  Point of View	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Andrea Montanari, Rudiger Urbanke	 Abstract: These are the notes for a set of lectures delivered by the two authors at the Les Houches Summer School on `Complex Systems' in July 2006. They provide an introduction to the basic concepts in modern (probabilistic) coding theory, highlighting connections with statistical mechanics. We also stress common concepts with other disciplines dealing with similar problems that can be generically referred to as `large graphical models'. While most of the lectures are devoted to the classical channel coding problem over simple memoryless channels, we present a discussion of more complex channel models. We conclude with an overview of the main open challenges in the field. 
0704.02858	Double covering of the Painlevé I equation and its singular analysis	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yusuke Sasano	 Abstract: In this note, we will do analysis of accessible singular points for a polynomial Hamiltonian system obtained by taking a double covering of the Painlev\'e I equation. We will show that this system passes the Painlev\'e $\alpha$-test for all accessible singular points $P_i \ (i=1,2,3)$. We note its holomorphy condition of the first Painlev\'e system. 
0704.02859	Theory of Two-Photon Interactions with Broadband Down-Converted Light  and Entangled Photons	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Barak Dayan	 Abstract: When two-photon interactions are induced by down-converted light with a bandwidth that exceeds the pump bandwidth, they can obtain a behavior that is pulse-like temporally, yet spectrally narrow. At low photon fluxes this behavior reflects the time and energy entanglement between the down-converted photons. However, two-photon interactions such as two-photon absorption (TPA) and sum-frequency generation (SFG) can exhibit such a behavior even at high power levels, as long as the final state (i.e. the atomic level in TPA, or the generated light in SFG) is narrowband enough. This behavior does not depend on the squeezing properties of the light, is insensitive to linear losses, and has potential applications. In this paper we describe analytically this behavior for travelling-wave down-conversion with continuous or pulsed pumping, both for high- and low-power regimes. For this we derive a quantum-mechanical expression for the down-converted amplitude generated by an arbitrary pump, and formulate operators that represent various two-photon interactions induced by broadband light. This model is in excellent agreement with experimental results of TPA and SFG with high power down-converted light and with entangled photons [Dayan et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 023005 (2004), Dayan et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 043602, (2005), Pe'er et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 94, 073601 (2005)]. 
0704.02860	Cryptoplanet update	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Robert L. Kurucz	 Abstract: We have had several talks recently reviewing 11 years of exoplanet discoveries through radial velocity variations, or from transits, or from microlensing. More than 200 exoplanets have been found, including some around pulsars that we do not discuss here. My physical definition for a planet is a roughly spherical, self-gravitating body more massive than 10**26 g formed from the leftover material in a protostellar disk after the protostar forms. Radiation from the protostar pushes the inner wall of the disk outward. The material agglomerates and forms planets in radial sequence. The outer planets are formed slowly by classical dynamical mechanisms acting in the snow zone. Planets have dense cores because of agglomeration. Not one of the exoplanets discovered thus far is a planet. They are cryptoplanets formed from matter ejected by protostars. When protostars have excessive infall at high latitudes, they partially balance angular momentum through outflow at the equator as they spin up. The ejected matter is trapped in the magnetic torus formed between the star and the disk, like a tokamak. The tokamak eventully reconnects and magnetic compression forms self-gravitating remnants trapped and compressed by a closed spherical magnetic field, spheromaks. Cooled spheromaks are cryptoplanets. They orbit near the star. They can merge with each other or fall into the star or be ejected. They can grow by accreting gas. They have a low density core and abundances characteristic of the protostar. Their masses, radii, densities, and orbits are random, and are inconsistent with the parameters for planets. They tend to have lower density than planets. 
0704.02861	Mixed Hyperbolic - Second-Order Parabolic Formulations of General  Relativity	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Vasileios Paschalidis	 Abstract: Two new formulations of general relativity are introduced. The first one is a parabolization of the Arnowitt, Deser, Misner (ADM) formulation and is derived by addition of combinations of the constraints and their derivatives to the right-hand-side of the ADM evolution equations. The desirable property of this modification is that it turns the surface of constraints into a local attractor because the constraint propagation equations become second-order parabolic independently of the gauge conditions employed. This system may be classified as mixed hyperbolic - second-order parabolic. The second formulation is a parabolization of the Kidder, Scheel, Teukolsky formulation and is a manifestly mixed strongly hyperbolic - second-order parabolic set of equations, bearing thus resemblance to the compressible Navier-Stokes equations. As a first test, a stability analysis of flat space is carried out and it is shown that the first modification exponentially damps and smoothes all constraint violating modes. These systems provide a new basis for constructing schemes for long-term and stable numerical integration of the Einstein field equations. 
0704.02862	Feasibility Study of Logic Circuits with Spin Wave Bus	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Alexander Khitun, Dmitri E. Nikonov, Mingqiang Bao, Kosmas Galatsis, Kang L. Wang	 Abstract: We present a feasibility study of logic circuits utilizing spin waves for information transmission and processing. As an alternative approach to the transistor-based architecture, logic circuits with spin wave bus do not use charge as an information carrier. In this work we describe the general concept of logic circuits with spin wave bus and illustrate its performance by numerical simulations based on available experimental data. Theoretical estimates and results of numerical simulations on signal attenuation, signal phase velocity, and the minimum spin wave energy required per bit in the spin bus are obtained. The transport parameters are compared with ones for conventional electronic transmission lines. Spin Wave Bus is not intended to substitute traditional metal interconnects since it has higher signal attenuation and lower signal propagation speed. The potential value of spin wave bus is, however, an interface between electronic circuits and integrated spintronics circuits. The logic circuits with spin wave bus allow us to provide wireless read-in and read-out. 
0704.02863	On some Hamiltonian structures of coupled Painlevé II systems in  dimension four	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yusuke Sasano	 Abstract: We find and study a two-parameter family of coupled Painlev\'e II systems in dimension four with affine Weyl group symmetry of several types. Moreover, we find a three-parameter family of polynomial Hamiltonian systems in two variables $t,s$. Setting $s=0$, we can obtain an autonomous version of the coupled Painlev\'e II systems. We also show its symmetry and holomorphy conditions. 
0704.02864	Sm2Al: Another ferromagnet with spin-orbital compensation?	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Pramod Kumar, K. G. Suresh, A. K. Nigam	 Abstract: We report the observation of a compensation point in the temperature dependence of magnetization data of polycrystalline Sm2Al. Magnetization measurements show that this compound magnetically orders at about 150 K. Below this temperature, the magnetization data shows a compensation point, which shifts with field. Hysteresis loops obtained below the compensation temperature show that the compound possesses exchange anisotropy. Both the exchange anisotropy field and the coercive field are found to be quite large and comparable to those of the classical spin-orbit compensated ferromagnet (Sm,Gd)Al2. The heat capacity data also suggest that there are similarities between (Sm,Gd)Al2 and Sm2Al. 
0704.02865	Classical and quantum randomness and the financial market	Statistical Finance (q-fin.ST)	Authors:Andrei Khrennikov	 Abstract: We analyze complexity of financial (and general economic) processes by comparing classical and quantum-like models for randomness. Our analysis implies that it might be that a quantum-like probabilistic description is more natural for financial market than the classical one. A part of our analysis is devoted to study the possibility of application of the quantum probabilistic model to agents of financial market. We show that, although the direct quantum (physical) reduction (based on using the scales of quantum mechanics) is meaningless, one may apply so called quantum-like models. In our approach quantum-like probabilistic behaviour is a consequence of contextualy of statistical data in finances (and economics in general). However, our hypothesis on "quantumness" of financial data should be tested experimentally (as opposed to the conventional description based on the noncontextual classical probabilistic approach). We present a new statistical test based on a generalization of the well known in quantum physics Bell's inequality. 
0704.02866	A sequence of blowing-ups connecting moduli of sheaves and the Donaldson  polynomial under change of polarization	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Kimiko Yamada	 Abstract: Let $H$ and $H'$ be two ample line bundles over a nonsingular projective surface $X$, and $M(H)$ (resp. $M(H')$) the coarse moduli scheme of $H$-semistable (resp. $H'$-semistable) sheaves of fixed type $(r=2,c_1,c_2)$. In a moduli-theoretic way that comes from elementary transforms, we connect $M(H)$ and $M(H')$ by a sequence of blowing-ups when walls separating $H$ and $H'$ are not necessarily good. As an application, we also consider the polarization change problem of Donaldson polynomials. 
0704.02867	On the Self-Affine Roughness of a Crack Front in Heterogeneous Media	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Eran Bouchbinder, Michal Bregman, Itamar Procaccia	 Abstract: The long-ranged elastic model, which is believed to describe the evolution of a self-affine rough crack-front, is analyzed to linear and non-linear orders. It is shown that the nonlinear terms, while important in changing the front dynamics, are not changing the scaling exponent which characterizes the roughness of the front. The scaling exponent thus predicted by the model is much smaller than the one observed experimentally. The inevitable conclusion is that the gap between the results of experiments and the model that is supposed to describe them is too large, and some new physics has to be invoked for another model. 
0704.02868	Large components in random induced subgraphs of n-cubes	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Christian M. Reidys	 Abstract: In this paper we study random induced subgraphs of the binary $n$-cube, $Q_2^n$. This random graph is obtained by selecting each $Q_2^n$-vertex with independent probability $\lambda_n$. Using a novel construction of subcomponents we study the largest component for $\lambda_n=\frac{1+\chi_n}{n}$, where $\epsilon\ge \chi_n\ge n^{-{1/3}+ \delta}$, $\delta>0$. We prove that there exists a.s. a unique largest component $C_n^{(1)}$. We furthermore show that $\chi_n=\epsilon$, $| C_n^{(1)}|\sim \alpha(\epsilon) \frac{1+\chi_n}{n} 2^n$ and for $o(1)=\chi_n\ge n^{-{1/3}+\delta}$, $| C_n^{(1)}| \sim 2 \chi_n \frac{1+\chi_n}{n} 2^n$ holds. This improves the result of \cite{Bollobas:91} where constant $\chi_n=\chi$ is considered. In particular, in case of $\lambda_n=\frac{1+\epsilon} {n}$, our analysis implies that a.s. a unique giant component exists. 
0704.02869	Studies on the Garnier system in two variables	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yusuke Sasano	 Abstract: We study some Hamiltonian structures of the Garnier system in two variables from the viewpoints of its symmetry and holomorphy properties. We also give a generalization of {\it Okamoto transformation \it}of the sixth Painlev\'e system. 
0704.02870	Blowing-ups describing the polarization change of moduli schemes of  semistable sheaves of general rank	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Kimiko Yamada	 Abstract: Let $H$ and $H'$ be two ample line bundles over a smooth projective surface $X$, and $M(H)$ (resp. $M(H')$) the coarse moduli scheme of $H$-semistable (resp. $H'$-semistable) sheaves of fixed type $(r,c_1,c_2)$. We construct a sequence of blowing-ups which describes how $M(H)$ differs from $M(H')$ not only when $r=2$ but also when $r$ is arbitrary. Means we here utilize are elementary transforms and the notion of a sheaf with flag. 
0704.02871	Complex dimensions of real manifolds, attached analytic discs and  parametric argument principle	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Mark Agranovsky	 Abstract: Let $\Omega$ be a smooth real analytic submanifold of a complex manifold $X$. We establish and study the link between the following 3 subjects: 1) topological properties of smooth families of attached analytic discs, the manifold $\Omega$ admits, 2) lower bounds for dimensions of complex tangent spaces of $\Omega$, 3) a generalization of the argument principle for smooth families of holomorphic mappings from the standard complex disc to $X$. In particular, we obtain characterization of complex manifolds and their boundaries in terms of attached analytic discs. The special case when $\Omega$ is the graph, leads to new characterizations of holomorphic and $CR$ functions, and in particular, to solutions of some open problems about such functions. 
0704.02872	Hypervelocity stars and the environment of Sgr A*	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Sesana, F. Haardt, P. Madau	 Abstract: Hypervelocity stars (HVSs) are a natural consequence of the presence of a massive nuclear black hole (Sgr A*) in the Galactic Center. Here we use the Brown et al. sample of unbound and bound HVSs together with numerical simulations of the propagation of HVSs in the Milky Way halo to constrain three plausible ejection mechanisms: 1) the scattering of stars bound to Sgr A* by an inspiraling intermediate-mass black hole (IMBH); 2) the disruption of stellar binaries in the tidal field of Sgr A*; and 3) the two-body scattering of stars off a cluster of stellar-mass black holes orbiting Sgr A*. We compare the predicted radial and velocity distributions of HVSs with the limited-statistics dataset currently available, and show that the IMBH model appears to produce a spectrum of ejection velocities that is too flat. Future astrometric and deep wide-field surveys of HVSs should shed unambiguous light on the stellar ejection mechanism and probe the Milky Way potential on scales as large as 200 kpc. 
0704.02873	Coupled Painlevé III system with affine Weyl group symmetry of type  $D_6^{(1)}$	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yusuke Sasano	 Abstract: We find and study a six-parameter family of coupled Painlev\'e III systems in dimension six with affine Weyl group symmetry of type $D_6^{(1)}$. We also find and study its degenerate systems with affine Weyl group symmetry of types $B_5^{(1)}$ and $D_5^{(2)}$. 
0704.02874	4U 0115+63 from RXTE and INTEGRAL Data: Pulse Profile and Cyclotron Line  Energy	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S.S. Tsygankov (1,2), A.A. Lutovinov (1,2), E.M. Churazov (2,1), R.A. Sunyaev (2,1) ((1) Space Research Institute, Moscow, Russia; (2) MPI for Astrophysik, Garching, Germany)	 Abstract: We analyze the observations of the transient X-ray pulsar 4U 0115+63 with the RXTE and INTEGRAL observatories in a wide X-ray (3-100 keV) energy band during its intense outbursts in 1999 and 2004. The energy of the fundamental harmonic of the cyclotron resonance absorption line near the maximum of the X-ray flux from the source (luminosity range 5x10^{37} - 2x10^{38} erg/s) is ~11 keV. When the pulsar luminosity falls below ~5x10^{37} erg/s, the energy of the fundamental harmonic is displaced sharply toward the high energies, up to ~16 keV. Under the assumption of a dipole magnetic field configuration, this change in cyclotron harmonic energy corresponds to a decrease in the height of the emitting region by ~2 km, while other spectral parameters, in particular, the cutoff energy, remain essentially constant. At a luminosity ~7x10^{37} erg/s, four almost equidistant cyclotron line harmonics are clearly seen in the spectrum. This suggests that either the region where the emission originates is compact or the emergent spectrum from different (in height) segments of the accretion column is uniform. We have found significant pulse profile variations with energy, luminosity, and time. In particular, we show that the profile variations from pulse to pulse are not reduced to a simple modulation of the accretion rate specified by external conditions. 
0704.02875	Phase String Theory for Doped Antiferromagnets	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Zheng-Yu Weng	 Abstract: The recent developments of the phase string theory for doped antiferromagnets will be briefly reviewed. Such theory is built upon a singular phase string effect induced by the motion of holes in a doped antiferromagnet, which as a precise property of the t-J model dictates the novel competition between the charge and spin degrees of freedom. A global phase diagram including the antiferromagnetic, superconducting, lower and upper pseudogap, and high-temperature "normal" phases, as well as a series of anomalous physical properties of these phases will be presented as the self-consistent and systematic consequences of the phase string theory. 
0704.02876	Characters of highest weight modules over affine Lie algebras are  meromorphic functions	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:M. Gorelik, V. Kac	 Abstract: We show that the characters of all highest weight modules over an affine Lie algebra with the highest weight away from the critical hyperplane are meromorphic functions in the positive half of Cartan subalgebra, their singularities being at most simple poles at zeros of real roots. We obtain some information about these singularities. 
0704.02877	Explicit Green functions for spin-orbit Hamiltonians	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Jochen Bruening, Vladimir Geyler, Konstantin Pankrashkin	 Abstract: We derive explicit expressions for Green functions and some related characteristics of the Rashba and Dresselhaus Hamiltonians with a uniform magnetic field. 
0704.02878	Dipole binding in a cosmic string background due to quantum anomalies	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Pulak Ranjan Giri	 Abstract: We propose quantum dynamics for the dipole moving in cosmic string background and show that the classical scale symmetry of a particle moving in cosmic string background is still restored even in the presence of dipole moment of the particle. However, we show that the classical scale symmetry is broken due to inequivalent quantization of the the non-relativistic system. The consequence of this quantum anomaly is the formation of bound state in the interval \xi\in(-1,1). The inequivalent quantization is characterized by a 1-parameter family of self-adjoint extension parameter \Sigma. We show that within the interval \xi\in(-1,1), cosmic string with zero radius can bind the dipole and the dipole does not fall into the singularity. 
0704.02879	Helicity-type integral invariants for Hamiltonian systems	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Mikhail V. Deryabin	 Abstract: In this note, we consider generalizations of the asymptotic Hopf invariant, or helicity, for Hamiltonian systems with one-and-a-half degrees of freedom and symplectic diffeomorphisms of a two-disk to itself. 
0704.02880	Fuzzy Extra Dimensions: Dimensional Reduction, Dynamical Generation and  Renormalizability	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:P. Aschieri, H. Steinacker, J. Madore, P. Manousselis, G. Zoupanos	 Abstract: We examine gauge theories defined in higher dimensions where theextra dimensions form a fuzzy (finite matrix) manifold. First we reinterpret these gauge theories as four-dimensional theories with Kaluza-Klein modes and then we perform a generalized \`a la Forgacs-Manton dimensional reduction. We emphasize some striking features emerging in the later case such as (i) the appearance of non-abelian gauge theories in four dimensions starting from an abelian gauge theory in higher dimensions, (ii) the fact that the spontaneous symmetry breaking of the theory takes place entirely in the extra dimensions and (iii) the renormalizability of the theory both in higher as well as in four dimensions. Then reversing the above approach we present a renormalizable four dimensional SU(N) gauge theory with a suitable multiplet of scalar fields, which via spontaneous symmetry breaking dynamically develops extra dimensions in the form of a fuzzy sphere. We explicitly find the tower of massive Kaluza-Klein modes consistent with an interpretation as gauge theory on $M^4 \times S^2$, the scalars being interpreted as gauge fields on $S^2$. Depending on the parameters of the model the low-energy gauge group can be of the form $SU(n_1) \times SU(n_2) \times U(1)$. 
0704.02881	Current status of Japanese detectors	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Daisuke Tatsumi, Ryutaro Takahashi, Koji Arai, Noriyasu Nakagawa, Kazuhiro Agatsuma, Toshitaka Yamazaki, Mitsuhiro Fukushima, Masa-Katsu Fujimoto, Akiteru Takamori, Alessandro Bertolini, Virginio Sannibale, Riccardo DeSalvo, Szabolcs Marka, Masaki Ando, Kimio Tsubono, Tomomi Akutsu, Kazuhiro Yamamoto, Hideki Ishitsuka, Takashi Uchiyama, Shinji Miyoki, Masatake Ohashi, Kazuaki Kuroda, Norichika Awaya, Nobuyuki Kanda, Akito Araya, Souichi Telada, Takayuki Tomaru, Tomiyoshi Haruyama, Akira Yamamoto, Nobuaki Sato, Toshitaka Suzuki, Takakazu Shintomi	 Abstract: Current status of TAMA and CLIO detectors in Japan is reported in this article. These two interferometric gravitational-wave detectors are being developed for the large cryogenic gravitational wave telescope (LCGT) which is a future plan for detecting gravitational wave signals at least once per year. TAMA300 is being upgraded to improve the sensitivity in low frequency region after the last observation experiment in 2004. To reduce the seismic noises, we are installing new seismic isolation system, which is called TAMA Seismic Attenuation System, for the four test masses. We confirmed stable mass locks of a cavity and improvements of length and angular fluctuations by using two SASs. We are currently optimizing the performance of the third and fourth SASs. We continue TAMA300 operation and R&D studies for LCGT. Next data taking in the summer of 2007 is planned. CLIO is a 100-m baseline length prototype detector for LCGT to investigate interferometer performance in cryogenic condition. The key features of CLIO are that it locates Kamioka underground site for low seismic noise level, and adopts cryogenic Sapphire mirrors for low thermal noise level. The first operation of the cryogenic interferometer was successfully demonstrated in February of 2006. Current sensitivity at room temperature is close to the target sensitivity within a factor of 4. Several observation experiments at room temperature have been done. Once the displacement noise reaches at thermal noise level of room temperature, its improvement by cooling test mass mirrors should be demonstrated. 
0704.02882	2MASS Reveals a Large Intrinsic Fraction of BALQSOs	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Xinyu Dai, Francesco Shankar, Gregory R. Sivakoff (Ohio State Univ.)	 Abstract: The intrinsic fraction of broad absorption line quasars (BALQSOs) is important in constraining geometric and evolutionary models of quasars. We present the fraction of BALQSOs in 2MASS detected quasars within the SDSS DR3 sample in the redshift range of 1.7 < z < 4.38. The fraction of BALQSOs is 40.4^{+3.4}_{-3.3}% in the 2MASS 99% database K_s band completeness sample, and 38.5^{+1.7}_{-1.7}% in the larger 2MASS sample extending below the completeness limit. These fractions are significantly higher than the 26% reported in the optical bands for the same parent sample. We also present the fraction of BALQSOs as functions of apparent magnitudes, absolute magnitudes, and redshift in the 2MASS and SDSS bands. The 2MASS fractions are consistently higher than the SDSS fractions in every comparison, and the BALQSO fractions steadily increase with wavelength from the SDSS u to the 2MASS K_s bands. Furthermore, the i - K_s color distributions of BALQSOs and non-BALQSOs indicate that BALQSOs are redder than non-BALQSOs, with a K-S test probability of 2e-12. These results are consistent with the spectral difference between BALQSOs and non-BALQSOs including both the absorption troughs and dust extinction in BALQSOs, which leads to significant selection biases against BALQSOs in the optical bands. Using a simple simulation incorporating the luminosity function of quasars and the amount of obscuration for BALQSOs, we simultaneously fit the BALQSO fractions in the SDSS and 2MASS bands. We obtain a true BALQSO fraction of 43\pm2% for luminous quasars (M_{K_s} \lesssim -30.1 mag). 
0704.02883	A physicist's view of the notion of "racism"	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Charles Jego, Bertrand M. Roehner	 Abstract: It is not uncommon, e.g. in the media, that specific groups are categorized as being racist. Based on an extensive dataset of intermarriage statistics our study questions the legitimacy of such characterizations. It suggests that, far from being group-dependent, segregation mechanisms are instead situation-dependent. More precisely, the degree of integration of a minority in terms of the frequency of intermarriage is seen to crucially depend upon the the proportion p of the minority. Thus, a population may have a segregative behavior with respect to a high-p (p>20%) minority A and at the same time a tolerant attitude toward a low-p (p<2%) minority B. This remains true even when A and B represent the same minority; for instance Black-White intermarriage is much more frequent in Montana than it is in South Carolina. In short, the nature of minority groups is largely irrelevant, the key factor being their proportion in a given area. 
0704.02884	Higher Nilpotent Analogues of A-infinity Structure	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:V.Dolotin, A.Morozov, Sh.Shakirov	 Abstract: Higher nilpotent analogues of the $A-\infty$-structure are explicitly defined on arbitrary simplicial complexes, generalizing explicit construction of /hep-th/0704.2609. These structures are associated with the higher nilpotent differential $d_n$, satisfying $d_n^n =0$, which is naturally defined on triangulated manifolds (tetrahedral lattices). The deformation $D_n = (I + \epsilon_n) d_n (I + \epsilon_n)^{-1}$ is defined with the help of the $n$-versions of discrete exterior product $\wedge_n$ and the $K_n$-operator. 
0704.02885	Convex comparison of service disciplines in real time queues	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Pascal Moyal	 Abstract: We present a comparison of the service disciplines in real-time queueing systems (the customers have a deadline before which they should enter the service booth). We state that giving priority to customers having an early deadline minimizes the average stationary lateness. We show this result by comparing adequate random vectors with the Schur-Convex majorization ordering. 
0704.02886	Control of mechanical systems on Lie groups and ideal hydrodynamics	Optimization and Control (math.OC)	Authors:Mikhail V. Deryabin	 Abstract: In contrast to the Euler-Poincar{\'e} reduction of geodesic flows of left- or right-invariant metrics on Lie groups to the corresponding Lie algebra (or its dual), one can consider the reduction of the geodesic flows to the group itself. The reduced vector field has a remarkable hydrodynamic interpretation: it is a velocity field for a stationary flow of an ideal fluid. Right- or left-invariant symmetry fields of the reduced field define vortex manifolds for such flows. Consider now a mechanical system, whose configuration space is a Lie group and whose Lagrangian is invariant to left translations on that group, and assume that the mass geometry of the system may change under the action of internal control forces. Such system can also be reduced to the Lie group. With no controls, this mechanical system describes a geodesic flow of the left-invariant metric, given by the Lagrangian, and thus its reduced flow is a stationary ideal fluid flow on the Lie group. The standard control problem for such system is to find the conditions, under which the system can be brought from any initial position in the configuration space to another preassigned position by changing its mass geometry. We show that under these conditions, by changing the mass geometry, one can also bring one vortex manifold to any other preassigned vortex manifold. 
0704.02887	$uvby-H_β$ CCD photometry and membership segregation of the open  cluster NGC2682 (M67)	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:L. Balaguer-Núñez (1,2,3), D. Galadí-Enríquez (4), C. Jordi (1,5) ((1)UB Spain, (2)SHAO China,(3) IoA Cambridge UK,(4) IAA Spain,(5) IEEC Spain)	 Abstract: Following deep astrometric and photometric study of the cluster NGC2682 (M67), we are able to accurately determine its fundamental parameters. Being an old and rich cluster, M67 is a relevant object for the analysis of the Galactic disk evolution. M67 is well studied but the lack of a wide and deep Stromgren photometric study makes our results worthwhile. The brightest stars of the open cluster M67 were used as uvby-Hbeta standard stars in our studies of NGC1817 and NGC2548, and the extension of the field covered, as well as the amount of observations, allowed to obtain the best set of Stromgren data ever published for this cluster. We discuss the results of our CCD uvby-Hbeta intermediate-band photometry, covering an area of about 50'x50' down to V 19. Moreover, a complete membership segregation based on astrometric and photometric criteria is obtained. The photometric analysis of a selected sample of stars yields a reddening value of E(b-y)= 0.03\pm0.03, a distance modulus of V_0-M_V= 9.7\pm0.2 and [Fe/H]= 0.01\pm0.14. Through isochrone fitting we found an age of log t= 9.6\pm0.1 (4.2\pm0.2 Gyr). A clump of approximately 60 stars around V= 16, (b-y)= 0.4 could be interpreted as a population of pre-cataclysmic variable stars (if members), or as a stream of field G-type stars placed at twice the distance of the cluster (if non-members). 
0704.02888	The Extragalactic Gamma Ray Background	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Charles D. Dermer (NRL)	 Abstract: One way to understand the nonthermal history of the universe is by establishing the origins of the unresolved and truly diffuse extragalactic gamma rays. Dim blazars and radio/gamma galaxies certainly make an important contribution to the galactic gamma-ray background given the EGRET discoveries, and previous treatments are reviewed and compared with a new analysis. Studies of the gamma-ray intensity from cosmic rays in star-forming galaxies and from structure formation shocks, as well as from dim GRBs, are briefly reviewed. A new hard gamma-ray source class seems required from the predicted aggregate intensity compared with the measured intensity. 
0704.02889	Stability of marginally outer trapped surfaces and existence of  marginally outer trapped tubes	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Lars Andersson, Marc Mars, Walter Simon	 Abstract: The present work extends our short communication Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 111102 (2005). For smooth marginally outer trapped surfaces (MOTS) in a smooth spacetime we define stability with respect to variations along arbitrary vectors v normal to the MOTS. After giving some introductory material about linear non self-adjoint elliptic operators, we introduce the stability operator L_v and we characterize stable MOTS in terms of sign conditions on the principal eigenvalue of L_v. The main result shows that given a strictly stable MOTS S contained in one leaf of a given reference foliation in a spacetime, there is an open marginally outer trapped tube (MOTT), adapted to the reference foliation, which contains S. We give conditions under which the MOTT can be completed. Finally, we show that under standard energy conditions on the spacetime, the MOTT must be either locally achronal, spacelike or null. 
0704.02890	Quantum p-adic spaces and quantum p-adic groups	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Yan Soibelman	 Abstract: We discuss examples of non-commutative spaces over non-archimedean fields. Those include non-commutative and quantum affinoid algebras, quantized K3 surfaces and quantized locally analytic p-adic groups. 
0704.02891	Schwartz functions on Nash manifolds	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Avraham Aizenbud, Dmitry Gourevitch	 Abstract: In this paper we extend the notions of Schwartz functions, tempered functions and generalized Schwartz functions to Nash (i.e. smooth semi-algebraic) manifolds. We reprove for this case classically known properties of Schwartz functions on $R^n$ and build some additional tools which are important in representation theory. 
0704.02892	Spin-isospin nuclear response using the existing microscopic Skyrme  functionals	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Sara Fracasso, Gianluca Colo'	 Abstract: Our paper aims at providing an answer to the question whether one can reliably describe the properties of the most important spin-isospin nuclear excitations, by using the available non-relativistic Skyrme energy functionals. Our method, which has been introduced in a previous publication devoted to the Isobaric Analog states, is the self-consistent Quasiparticle Random Phase Approximation (QRPA). The inclusion of pairing is instrumental for describing a number of experimentally measured spherical systems which are characterized by open shells. We discuss the effect of isoscalar and isovector pairing correlations. Based on the results for the Gamow-Teller resonance in $^{90}$Zr, in $^{208}$Pb and in few Sn isotopes, we draw definite conclusions on the performance of different Skyrme parametrizations, and we suggest improvements for future fits. We also use the spin-dipole resonance as a benchmark of our statements. 
0704.02893	Wetting transition on a one-dimensional disorder	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:D.M. Gangardt, S.K. Nechaev	 Abstract: We consider wetting of a one-dimensional random walk on a half-line $x\ge 0$ in a short-ranged potential located at the origin $x=0$. We demonstrate explicitly how the presence of a quenched chemical disorder affects the pinning-depinning transition point. For small disorders we develop a perturbative technique which enables us to compute explicitly the averaged temperature (energy) of the pinning transition. For strong disorder we compute the transition point both numerically and using the renormalization group approach. Our consideration is based on the following idea: the random potential can be viewed as a periodic potential with the period $n$ in the limit $n\to\infty$. The advantage of our approach stems from the ability to integrate exactly over all spatial degrees of freedoms in the model and to reduce the initial problem to the analysis of eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of some special non-Hermitian random matrix with disorder--dependent diagonal and constant off-diagonal coefficients. We show that even for strong disorder the shift of the averaged pinning point of the random walk in the ensemble of random realizations of substrate disorder is indistinguishable from the pinning point of the system with preaveraged (i.e. annealed) Boltzmann weight. 
0704.02894	Measurement of density correlations in pseudorapidity via charged  particle multiplicity fluctuations in Au+Au collisions at sqrt(s_NN)=200 GeV	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:PHENIX Collaboration, S.S. Adler, et al	 Abstract: Longitudinal density correlations of produced matter in Au+Au collisions at sqrt(s_NN)=200 GeV have been measured from the inclusive charged particle distributions as a function of pseudorapidity window sizes. The extracted \alpha \xi parameter, related to the susceptibility of the density fluctuations in the long wavelength limit, exhibits a non-monotonic behavior as a function of the number of participant nucleons, N_part. A local maximum is seen at N_part ~ 90, with corresponding energy density based on the Bjorken picture of \epsilon_Bj \tau ~ 2.4 GeV/(fm^2 c) with a transverse area size of 60 fm^2. This behavior may suggest a critical phase boundary based on the Ginzburg-Landau framework. 
0704.02895	Discrete and Continuum Quantum Gravity	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Herbert W. Hamber	 Abstract: I review discrete and continuum approaches to quantized gravity based on the covariant Feynman path integral approach. 
0704.02896	Considering the Case for Biodiversity Cycles: Reexamining the Evidence  for Periodicity in the Fossil Record	Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)	Authors:Bruce S.Lieberman, Adrian L. Melott (University of Kansas)	 Abstract: Medvedev and Melott (2007) have suggested that periodicity in fossil biodiversity may be induced by cosmic rays which vary as the Solar System oscillates normal to the galactic disk. We re-examine the evidence for a 62 million year (Myr) periodicity in biodiversity throughout the Phanerozoic history of animal life reported by Rohde & Mueller (2005), as well as related questions of periodicity in origination and extinction. We find that the signal is robust against variations in methods of analysis, and is based on fluctuations in the Paleozoic and a substantial part of the Mesozoic. Examination of origination and extinction is somewhat ambiguous, with results depending upon procedure. Origination and extinction intensity as defined by RM may be affected by an artifact at 27 Myr in the duration of stratigraphic intervals. Nevertheless, when a procedure free of this artifact is implemented, the 27 Myr periodicity appears in origination, suggesting that the artifact may ultimately be based on a signal in the data. A 62 Myr feature appears in extinction, when this same procedure is used. We conclude that evidence for a periodicity at 62 Myr is robust, and evidence for periodicity at approximately 27 Myr is also present, albeit more ambiguous. 
0704.02897	A 2-generated 2-related group with no non-trivial finite factors	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:A.Yu. Ol'shanskii, M.V. Sapir	 Abstract: We construct a 2-generated 2-related group without non-trivial finite factors. That answers a question of J. Button. 
0704.02898	Green's function of a finite chain and the discrete Fourier transform	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:S. Cojocaru	 Abstract: A new expression for the Green's function of a finite one-dimensional lattice with nearest neighbor interaction is derived via discrete Fourier transform. Solution of the Heisenberg spin chain with periodic and open boundary conditions is considered as an example. Comparison to Bethe ansatz clarifies the relation between the two approaches. 
0704.02899	Some group theory problems	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:M. V. Sapir	 Abstract: This is a survey of some problems in geometric group theory which I find interesting. The problems are from different areas of group theory. Each section is devoted to problems in one area. It contains an introduction where I give some necessary definitions and motivations, problems and some discussions of them. For each problem, I try to mention the author. If the author is not given, the problem, to the best of my knowledge, was formulated by me first. 
0704.02900	Higher-order theories	Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)	Authors:Andre' Hirschowitz, Marco Maggesi	 Abstract: We extend our approach to abstract syntax (with binding constructions) through modules and linearity. First we give a new general definition of arity, yielding the companion notion of signature. Then we obtain a modularity result as requested by Ghani and Uustalu (2003): in our setting, merging two extensions of syntax corresponds to building an amalgamated sum. Finally we define a natural notion of equation concerning a signature and prove the existence of an initial semantics for a so-called representable signature equipped with a set of equations. 
0704.02901	On weakly convex star-shaped polyhedra	Metric Geometry (math.MG)	Authors:Jean-Marc Schlenker	 Abstract: Weakly convex polyhedra which are star-shaped with respect to one of their vertices are infinitesimally rigid. This is a partial answer to the question whether every decomposable weakly convex polyhedron is infinitesimally rigid. The proof uses a recent result of Izmestiev on the geometry of convex caps. 
0704.02902	Recommending Related Papers Based on Digital Library Access Records	Digital Libraries (cs.DL)	Authors:Stefan Pohl, Filip Radlinski, Thorsten Joachims	 Abstract: An important goal for digital libraries is to enable researchers to more easily explore related work. While citation data is often used as an indicator of relatedness, in this paper we demonstrate that digital access records (e.g. http-server logs) can be used as indicators as well. In particular, we show that measures based on co-access provide better coverage than co-citation, that they are available much sooner, and that they are more accurate for recent papers. 
0704.02903	Entangled games are hard to approximate	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Julia Kempe, Hirotada Kobayashi, Keiji Matsumoto, Ben Toner, Thomas Vidick	 Abstract: We establish the first hardness results for the problem of computing the value of one-round games played by a verifier and a team of provers who can share quantum entanglement. In particular, we show that it is NP-hard to approximate within an inverse polynomial the value of a one-round game with (i) quantum verifier and two entangled provers or (ii) classical verifier and three entangled provers. Previously it was not even known if computing the value exactly is NP-hard. We also describe a mathematical conjecture, which, if true, would imply hardness of approximation to within a constant. We start our proof by describing two ways to modify classical multi-prover games to make them resistant to entangled provers. We then show that a strategy for the modified game that uses entanglement can be ``rounded'' to one that does not. The results then follow from classical inapproximability bounds. Our work implies that, unless P=NP, the values of entangled-prover games cannot be computed by semidefinite programs that are polynomial in the size of the verifier's system, a method that has been successful for more restricted quantum games. 
0704.02904	The spectral laws of Hermitian block-matrices with large random blocks	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Tamer Oraby	 Abstract: We are going to study the limiting spectral measure of fixed dimensional Hermitian block-matrices with large dimensional Wigner blocks. We are going also to identify the limiting spectral measure when the Hermitian block-structure is Circulant. Using the limiting spectral measure of a Hermitian Circulant block-matrix we will show that the spectral measure of a Wigner matrix with $k-$weakly dependent entries need not to be the semicircle law in the limit. 
0704.02905	Supersymmetric Vector Multiplets in Non-Adjoint Representations of SO(N)	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Hitoshi Nishino, Subhash Rajpoot	 Abstract: In the conventional formulation of N=1 supersymmetry, a vector multiplet is supposed to be in the adjoint representation of a given gauge group. We present a new formulation with a vector multiplet in the non-adjoint representation of SO(N) gauge group. Our basic algebra is [ T^I, T^J ] = f^{I J K} T^K, [ T^I, U^i ] = - (T^I)^{i j} U^j, [ U^i, U^j ] = - (T^I)^{i j} T^I, where T^I are the generators of SO(N), while U^i are the new 'generators' in certain non-adjoint real representation R of SO(N). We use here the word `generator' in the broader sense of the word. Such a representation can be any real representation of SO(N) with the positive definite metric, satisfying (T^I)^{i j} = - (T^I)^{j i} and (T^I)^{[ i j |} (T^I)^{| k ] l} \equiv 0. The first non-trivial examples are the spinorial 8_S and conjugate spinorial 8_C representations of SO(8) consistent with supersymmetry. We further couple the system to chiral multiplets, and show that a Higgs mechanism can give positive definite (mass)^2 to the new gauge fields for U^i. We show an analogous system working with N=1 supersymmetry in 10D, and thereby N=4 system in 4D interacting with extra multiplets in the representation R. We also perform superspace reformulation as an independent confirmation. 
0704.02906	Pulsar radiation belts and transient radio emission	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Q. Luo, D. B. Melrose	 Abstract: It is proposed that radiation belts similar to the ones in the planetary magnetosphere can exist for a pulsar with a relatively long period and a strong magnetic field. In the belts located in the closed field line region near the light cylinder relativistic pairs are trapped and maintained at a density substantially higher than the local Goldreich-Julian corotation density. The trapped plasma can be supplied and replenished by either direct injection of relativistic pairs from acceleration of externally-supplied particles in a dormant outer gap or in situ ionization of the accreted neutral material in the trapping region. The radiation belts can be disrupted by waves that are excited in the region as the result of plasma instabilities or emitted from the surface due to starquakes or stellar oscillations. The disruption can cause an intermittent particle precipitation toward the star producing radio bursts. It is suggested that such bursts may be seen as rotating radio transients (RRATs). 
0704.02907	The Transit Light Curve Project. VI. Three Transits of the Exoplanet  TrES-2	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Matthew J. Holman (1), Joshua N. Winn (2), David W. Latham (1), Francis T. O'Donovan (3), David Charbonneau (1), Guillermo Torres (1), Alessandro Sozzetti (1 and 4), Jose Fernandez (1), Mark E. Everett (5)	 Abstract: Of the nearby transiting exoplanets that are amenable to detailed study, TrES-2 is both the most massive and has the largest impact parameter. We present z-band photometry of three transits of TrES-2. We improve upon the estimates of the planetary, stellar, and orbital parameters, in conjunction with the spectroscopic analysis of the host star by Sozzetti and co-workers. We find the planetary radius to be 1.222 +/- 0.038 R_Jup and the stellar radius to be 1.003 +/- 0.027 R_Sun. The quoted uncertainties include the systematic error due to the uncertainty in the stellar mass (0.980 +/- 0.062 M_Sun). The timings of the transits have an accuracy of 25s and are consistent with a uniform period, thus providing a baseline for future observations with the NASA Kepler satellite, whose field of view will include TrES-2. 
0704.02908	Ferroelectricity driven by the non-centrosymmetric magnetic ordering in  multiferroic TbMn_2O_5: a first-principles study	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Chenjie Wang, Guang-Can Guo, Lixin He	 Abstract: The ground state structural, electronic and magnetic properties of multiferroic TbMn$_2$O$_5$ are investigated via first-principles calculations. We show that the ferroelectricity in TbMn$_2$O$_5$ is driven by the non-centrosymmetric magnetic ordering, without invoking the spin-orbit coupling and non-collinear spins. The {\it intrinsic} electric polarization in this compound is calculated to be 1187 $nC\cdot$ cm$^{-2}$, an order of magnitude larger than previously thought. 
0704.02909	What it takes to measure a fundamental difference between dark matter  and baryons: the halo velocity anisotropy	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ole Host, Steen H Hansen	 Abstract: Numerous ongoing experiments aim at detecting WIMP dark matter particles from the galactic halo directly through WIMP-nucleon interactions. Once such a detection is established a confirmation of the galactic origin of the signal is needed. This requires a direction-sensitive detector. We show that such a detector can measure the velocity anisotropy beta of the galactic halo. Cosmological N-body simulations predict the dark matter anisotropy to be nonzero, beta~0.2. Baryonic matter has beta=0 and therefore a detection of a nonzero beta would be strong proof of the fundamental difference between dark and baryonic matter. We estimate the sensitivity for various detector configurations using Monte Carlo methods and we show that the strongest signal is found in the relatively few high recoil energy events. Measuring beta to the precision of ~0.03 will require detecting more than 10^4 WIMP events with nuclear recoil energies greater than 100 keV for a WIMP mass of 100 GeV and a 32S target. This number corresponds to ~10^6 events at all energies. We discuss variations with respect to input parameters and we show that our method is robust to the presence of backgrounds and discuss the possible improved sensitivity for an energy-sensitive detector. 
0704.02910	Scanning-probe spectroscopy of semiconductor donor molecules	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:I. Kuljanishvili, C. Kayis, J. F. Harrison, C. Piermarocchi, T. A. Kaplan, S. H. Tessmer, L. N. Pfeiffer, K. W. West	 Abstract: Semiconductor devices continue to press into the nanoscale regime, and new applications have emerged for which the quantum properties of dopant atoms act as the functional part of the device, underscoring the necessity to probe the quantum structure of small numbers of dopant atoms in semiconductors[1-3]. Although dopant properties are well-understood with respect to bulk semiconductors, new questions arise in nanosystems. For example, the quantum energy levels of dopants will be affected by the proximity of nanometer-scale electrodes. Moreover, because shallow donors and acceptors are analogous to hydrogen atoms, experiments on small numbers of dopants have the potential to be a testing ground for fundamental questions of atomic and molecular physics, such as the maximum negative ionization of a molecule with a given number of positive ions[4,5]. Electron tunneling spectroscopy through isolated dopants has been observed in transport studies[6,7]. In addition, Geim and coworkers identified resonances due to two closely spaced donors, effectively forming donor molecules[8]. Here we present capacitance spectroscopy measurements of silicon donors in a gallium-arsenide heterostructure using a scanning probe technique[9,10]. In contrast to the work of Geim et al., our data show discernible peaks attributed to successive electrons entering the molecules. Hence this work represents the first addition spectrum measurement of dopant molecules. More generally, to the best of our knowledge, this study is the first example of single-electron capacitance spectroscopy performed directly with a scanning probe tip[9]. 
0704.02911	Bistability double crossing curve effect in a polariton-laser  semiconductor microcavity	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Eduardo Adriano Cotta, Franklin Massami Matinaga	 Abstract: We report an experimental observation of polaritonic optical bistability of the laser emission in a planar semiconductor microcavity with a $100\AA$ GaAs single quantum well in the strong-coupling regime. The bistability curves show crossings that indicate a competition between a Kerr-like effect induced by the polariton population and thermal effects. Associated with the bistability, laser-like emission occurs at the bare cavity mode. 
0704.02912	Nontrivial edge coupling from a Dirichlet network squeezing: the case of  a bent waveguide	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Claudio Cacciapuoti, Pavel Exner	 Abstract: In distinction to the Neumann case the squeezing limit of a Dirichlet network leads in the threshold region generically to a quantum graph with disconnected edges, exceptions may come from threshold resonances. Our main point in this paper is to show that modifying locally the geometry we can achieve in the limit a nontrivial coupling between the edges including, in particular, the class of $\delta$-type boundary conditions. We work out an illustration of this claim in the simplest case when a bent waveguide is squeezed. 
0704.02913	Ladder Sandpiles	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Antal A. Járai, Russell Lyons	 Abstract: We study Abelian sandpiles on graphs of the form $G \times I$, where $G$ is an arbitrary finite connected graph, and $I \subset \Z$ is a finite interval. We show that for any fixed $G$ with at least two vertices, the stationary measures $\mu_I = \mu_{G \times I}$ have two extremal weak limit points as $I \uparrow \Z$. The extremal limits are the only ergodic measures of maximum entropy on the set of infinite recurrent configurations. We show that under any of the limiting measures, one can add finitely many grains in such a way that almost surely all sites topple infinitely often. We also show that the extremal limiting measures admit a Markovian coding. 
0704.02914	Possible solution to the $^7$Li problem by the long lived stau	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Toshifumi Jittoh, Kazunori Kohri, Masafumi Koike, Joe Sato, Takashi Shimomura, Masato Yamanaka	 Abstract: Modification of standard big-bang nucleosynthesis is considered in the minimal supersymmetric standard model to resolve the excessive theoretical prediction of the abundance of primordial lithium 7. We focus on the stau as a next-lightest superparticle, which is long lived due to its small mass difference with the lightest superparticle. It provides a number of additional decay processes of $\mathrm{^{7}Li}$ and $\mathrm{^{7}Be}$. A particularly important process is the internal conversion in the stau-nucleus bound state, which destroys the $\mathrm{^{7}Li}$ and $\mathrm{^{7}Be}$ effectively. We show that the modification can lead to a prediction consistent with the observed abundance of $\mathrm{^{7}Li}$. 
0704.02915	Energy and System Size Dependence of Photon Production at Forward  Rapidities at RHIC	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:Monika Sharma, Sunil Dogra, Neeraj Gupta (STAR Collaboration)	 Abstract: The energy and system size dependence of pseudorapidity ($\eta$) and multiplicity distributions of photons are measured in the region -2.3 $\leq$ $\eta$ $\leq$ -3.7 for Cu + Cu collisions at $\sqrt{s_{NN}}$ = 200 and 62.4 GeV. Photon multiplicity measurements at forward rapidity have been carried out using a Photon Multiplicity Detector (PMD) in the STAR experiment. Photons are found to follow longitudinal scaling for Cu + Cu collisions for 0-10% centrality. A Comparison of pseudorapidity distributions with HIIJING model is also presented. 
0704.02916	Uniqueness thresholds on trees versus graphs	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Allan Sly	 Abstract: Counter to the general notion that the regular tree is the worst case for decay of correlation between sets and nodes, we produce an example of a multi-spin interacting system which has uniqueness on the $d$-regular tree but does not have uniqueness on some infinite $d$-regular graphs. 
0704.02917	Extracting galactic binary signals from the first round of Mock LISA  Data Challenges	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Jeff Crowder, Neil J. Cornish	 Abstract: We report on the performance of an end-to-end Bayesian analysis pipeline for detecting and characterizing galactic binary signals in simulated LISA data. Our principal analysis tool is the Blocked-Annealed Metropolis Hasting (BAM) algorithm, which has been optimized to search for tens of thousands of overlapping signals across the LISA band. The BAM algorithm employs Bayesian model selection to determine the number of resolvable sources, and provides posterior distribution functions for all the model parameters. The BAM algorithm performed almost flawlessly on all the Round 1 Mock LISA Data Challenge data sets, including those with many highly overlapping sources. The only misses were later traced to a coding error that affected high frequency sources. In addition to the BAM algorithm we also successfully tested a Genetic Algorithm (GA), but only on data sets with isolated signals as the GA has yet to be optimized to handle large numbers of overlapping signals. 
0704.02918	Long Term Simulations Of Astrophysical Jets; Energy Structure and  Quasi-Periodic Ejection	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ahmed Ibrahim, Kazunari Shibata	 Abstract: We have performed self-consistent 2.5-dimensional nonsteady MHD numerical simulations of jet formation as long as possible, including the dynamics of accretion disks. Although the previous nonsteady MHD simulations for astrophysical jets revealed that the characteristics of nonsteady jets are similar to those of steady jets, the calculation time of these simulations is very short compared with the time scale of observed jets. Thus we have investigated long term evolutions of mass accretion rate, mass outflow rate, jet velocity, and various energy flux. We found that the ejection of jet is quasi-periodic. The period of the ejection is related to the time needed for the initial magnetic filed to be twisted to generate toroidal filed. We compare our results with both the steady state theory and previous 2.5-dimensional nonsteady MHD simulations. 
0704.02919	On Verifying and Engineering the Well-gradedness of a Union-closed  Family	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:David Eppstein, Jean-Claude Falmagne, Hasan Uzun	 Abstract: Current techniques for generating a knowledge space, such as QUERY, guarantees that the resulting structure is closed under union, but not that it satisfies wellgradedness, which is one of the defining conditions for a learning space. We give necessary and sufficient conditions on the base of a union-closed set family that ensures that the family is well-graded. We consider two cases, depending on whether or not the family contains the empty set. We also provide algorithms for efficiently testing these conditions, and for augmenting a set family in a minimal way to one that satisfies these conditions. 
0704.02920	Global Jacquet-Langlands correspondence, multiplicity one and  classification of automorphic representations	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:A. I. Badulescu, N. Grbac	 Abstract: In this paper we show a local Jacquet-Langlands correspondence for all unitary irreducible representations. We prove the global Jacquet-Langlands correspondence in characteristic zero. As consequences we obtain the multiplicity one and strong multiplicity one theorems for inner forms of GL(n) as well as a classification of the residual spectrum and automorphic representations in analogy with results proved by Moeglin-Waldspurger and Jacquet-Shalika for GL(n). 
0704.02921	Solar Magnetic Tracking. I. Software Comparison and Recommended  Practices	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C.E. DeForest, H.J. Hagenaar, D.A. Lamb, C.E. Parnell, B.T. Welsch	 Abstract: Feature tracking and recognition are increasingly common tools for data analysis, but are typically implemented on an ad-hoc basis by individual research groups, limiting the usefulness of derived results when selection effects and algorithmic differences are not controlled. Specific results that are affected include the solar magnetic turnover time, the distributions of sizes, strengths, and lifetimes of magnetic features, and the physics of both small scale flux emergence and the small-scale dynamo. In this paper, we present the results of a detailed comparison between four tracking codes applied to a single set of data from SOHO/MDI, describe the interplay between desired tracking behavior and parameterization of tracking algorithms, and make recommendations for feature selection and tracking practice in future work. 
0704.02922	Dynamical stability for finite quantum spin chains against a  time-periodic inhomogeneous perturbation	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Kazue Kudo, Katsuhiro Nakamura	 Abstract: We investigate dynamical stability of the ground state against a time-periodic and spatially-inhomogeneous magnetic field for finite quantum XXZ spin chains. We use the survival probability as a measure of stability and demonstrate that it decays as $P(t) \propto t^{-1/2}$ under a certain condition. The dynamical properties should also be related to the level statistics of the XXZ spin chains with a constant spatially-inhomogeneous magnetic field. The level statistics depends on the anisotropy parameter and the field strength. We show how the survival probability depends on the anisotropy parameter, the strength and frequency of the field. 
0704.02923	The Magnetic Fields of Classical T Tauri Stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Christopher M. Johns-Krull	 Abstract: We report new magnetic field measurements for 14 classical T Tauri stars (CTTSs). We combine these data with one previous field determination in order to compare our observed field strengths with the field strengths predicted by magnetospheric accretion models. We use literature data on the stellar mass, radius, rotation period, and disk accretion rate to predict the field strength that should be present on each of our stars according to these magnetospheric accretion models. We show that our measured field values do not correlate with the field strengths predicted by simple magnetospheric accretion theory. We also use our field strength measurements and literature X-ray luminosity data to test a recent relationship expressing X-ray luminosity as a function of surface magnetic flux derived from various solar feature and main sequence star measurements. We find that the T Tauri stars we have observed have weaker than expected X-ray emission by over an order of magnitude on average using this relationship. We suggest the cause for this is actually a result of the very strong fields on these stars which decreases the efficiency with which gas motions in the photosphere can tangle magnetic flux tubes in the corona. 
0704.02924	Excedance numbers for permutations in complex reflection groups	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Toufik Mansour, Yidong Sun	 Abstract: Recently, Bagno, Garber and Mansour studied a kind of excedance number on the complex reflection groups and computed its multidistribution with the number of fixed points on the set of involutions in these groups. In this note, we consider the similar problems in more general cases and make a correction of one result obtained by them. 
0704.02925	Failure mechanisms and surface roughness statistics of fractured  Fontainebleau sandstone	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Laurent Ponson (FAST), Harold Auradou (FAST), Marc Pessel (IDES), Véronique Lazarus (FAST), Jean-Pierre Hulin (FAST)	 Abstract: In an effort to investigate the link between failure mechanisms and the geometry of fractures of compacted grains materials, a detailed statistical analysis of the surfaces of fractured Fontainebleau sandstones has been achieved. The roughness of samples of different widths W is shown to be self affine with an exponent zeta=0.46 +- 0.05 over a range of length scales ranging from the grain size d up to an upper cut-off length \xi = 0.15 W. This low zeta value is in agreement with measurements on other sandstones and on sintered materials. The probability distributions P(delta z,delta h) of the variations of height over different distances delta z > d can be collapsed onto a single Gaussian distribution with a suitable normalisation and do not display multifractal features. The roughness amplitude, as characterized by the height-height correlation over fixed distances delta z, does not depend on the sample width, implying that no anomalous scaling of the type reported for other materials is present. It is suggested, in agreement with recent theoretical work, to explain these results by the occurence of brittle fracture (instead of damage failure in materials displaying a higher value of zeta = 0.8). 
0704.02926	Optimal Routing for the Gaussian Multiple-Relay Channel with  Decode-and-Forward	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Lawrence Ong, Mehul Motani	 Abstract: In this paper, we study a routing problem on the Gaussian multiple relay channel, in which nodes employ a decode-and-forward coding strategy. We are interested in routes for the information flow through the relays that achieve the highest DF rate. We first construct an algorithm that provably finds optimal DF routes. As the algorithm runs in factorial time in the worst case, we propose a polynomial time heuristic algorithm that finds an optimal route with high probability. We demonstrate that that the optimal (and near optimal) DF routes are good in practice by simulating a distributed DF coding scheme using low density parity check codes with puncturing and incremental redundancy. 
0704.02927	Some smooth Finsler deformations of hyperbolic surfaces	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Bruno Colbois (UNINE), Florence Newberger (DMS-CASULB), Patrick Verovic (LM-Savoie)	 Abstract: Given a closed hyperbolic Riemannian surface, the aim of the present paper is to describe an explicit construction of smooth deformations of the hyperbolic metric into Finsler metrics that are not Riemannian and whose properties are such that the classical Riemannian results about entropy rigidity, marked length spectrum rigidity and boundary rigidity all fail to extend to the Finsler category. 
0704.02928	Higher genus Gromov-Witten invariants of the Grassmannian, and the  Pfaffian Calabi-Yau threefolds	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Shinobu Hosono, Yukiko Konishi	 Abstract: We solve Bershadsky-Cecotti-Ooguri-Vafa (BCOV) holomorphic anomaly equation to determine the higher genus Gromov-Witten invariants ($g \leq 5$) of the derived equivalent Calabi-Yau threefolds, which are of the appropriate codimensions in the Grassmannian Gr(2,7) and the Pfaffian Pf(7). 
0704.02929	La controverse de 1874 entre Camille Jordan et Leopold Kronecker	History and Overview (math.HO)	Authors:Frederic Brechenmacher (LML)	 Abstract: During the whole of 1874, Camille Jordan and Leopold Kronecker quar- relled vigorously over the organisation of the theory of bilinear forms. That theory promised a "general" and "homogeneous" treatment of numerous questions arising in various 19th-century theoretical contexts, and it hinged on two theorems, stated independently by Jordan and Weierstrass, that would today be considered equivalent. It was, however, the perceived difference between those two theorems that sparked the 1874 controversy. Focusing on this quarrel allows us to explore the algebraic identity of the polynomial practices of the manipulations of forms in use before the advent of structural approaches to linear algebra. The latter approaches identified these practices with methods for the classification of similar matrices. We show that the prac- tices -- Jordan's canonical reduction and Kronecker's invariant computation -- reflect identities inseparable from the social context of the time. Moreover, these practices reveal not only tacit knowledge, local ways of thinking, but also -- in light of a long history tracing back to the work of Lagrange, Laplace, Cau- chy, and Hermite -- two internal philosophies regarding the significance of generality which are inseparable from two disciplinary ideals opposing algebra and arithmetic. By interrogating the cultural identities of such practices, this study aims at a deeper understanding of the history of linear algebra without focusing on issues related to the origins of theories or structures. 
0704.02930	Probing Inward Motions in Starless Cores Using The HCN J = 1-0 Hyperfine  Transitions : A Pointing Survey Toward Central Regions	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jungjoo Sohn, Chang Won Lee, Yong-Sun Park, Hyung Mok Lee, Philip C. Myers, Youngung Lee	 Abstract: We have carried out a survey toward the central regions of 85 starless cores in HCN J = 1-0 to study inward motions in the cores. Sixty-four cores were detected with HCN lines. The infall asymmetry in the HCN spectra is found to be more prevalent, and more prominent than in any other previously used infall tracers such as CS J = 2-1, DCO+ J = 2-1, and N2H+ J = 1-0. We found close relation between the intensities of the HCN and N2H+ lines. This implies that the HCN is not much depleted in the central regions of the cores. In some cores, the HCN spectra show different sign of asymmetry from other molecular lines. A few cores show various signs of asymmetry in individual HCN hyperfine lines. The distribution of the velocity shift dV of the HCN profiles with respect to the systemic velocity of the optically thin tracer is found to be more shifted toward bluer side than those of other infall tracers, indicating that the HCN traces inward motions more frequently. The dV distribution of each HCN hyperfine line for all sources is similar. Moreover the dV values obtained from different HCN hyperfine lines for each source are nearly similar. These may mean that most of starless cores are in similar kinematic states across the layers of the cores. We identify 17 infall candidates using all available indicators such as the velocity shift dV and the blue to red peak intensity ratio of double peaked profiles for HCN J = 1-0, CS J = 2-1, J = 3-2, DCO+ J = 2-1, and N2H+ J = 1-0. Four of them, L63, L492, L694-2, and L1197 are found to show higher blue to red ratio in the HCN hyperfine line along the lower opacity, suggesting that infall speed becomes higher toward the center. 
0704.02931	L'identité algébrique d'une pratique portée par la discussion sur  l'équation à l'aide de laquelle on détermine les inégalités  séculaires des planètes (1766-1874)	History and Overview (math.HO)	Authors:Frederic Brechenmacher (LML)	 Abstract: What did "algebra" mean before the development of the algebraic theories of the 20th century ? This paper stresses the identities taken by the algebraic practices developped during the century long discussion around the equation around the equation of secular inequalities (1766- 1874). In 1874, a strong controversy on the theory of bilinear and quadratic forms opposed Camille Jordan and Leopold Kronecker. The arithmetical ideal of Kronecker faced Jordan's claim for the simplicity of his algebraic canonical form. As the controversy combined mathematical and historical arguments, it gave rise to the writing of a history of the methods used by Lagrange, Laplace and Weierstrass in a century long mathematical discussion around the "equation of secular inequalities". 
0704.02932	Controlling statistical properties of stored light	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:A. Raczynski, K. Slowik, J. Zaremba, S. Zielinska-Kaniasty	 Abstract: Statistical properties of outgoing light pulses are studies after they have been stored in a medium of atoms in the tripod configuration. A generalized Hong-Ou-Mandel interference, storing of squeezed states and homodyne signal analysis are discussed in the context of their dependence on the parameters of the control fields used for light storage and release. 
0704.02933	Some results on the Zeeman topology	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Giacomo Dossena	 Abstract: In a 1967 paper, Zeeman proposed a new topology for Minkowski spacetime, physically motivated but much more complicated than the standard one. Here a detailed study is given of some properties of the Zeeman topology which had not been considered at the time. The general setting refers to Minkowski spacetime of any dimension k+1. In the special case k=1, a full characterization is obtained for the compact subsets of spacetime; moreover, the first homotopy group is shown to be nontrivial. 
0704.02934	Asymmetry of the Hamiltonian and the Tolman's length	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:V. L. Kulinskii	 Abstract: Using the canonical transformation of the order parameter which restores the Ising symmetry of the Hamiltonian we derive the expression for the Tolman length as a sum of two terms. One of them is the term generated by the fluctuations of the order parameter the other one is due to the entropy. The leading singular behavior of the Tolman length near the critical point is analyzed. The obtained results are in correspondence with that of M.A. Anisimov, Phys. Rev. Lett., \textbf{98} 035702 (2007). 
0704.02935	Formation of Ultracold Heteronuclear Dimers in Electric Fields	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Rosario González-Férez, Michael Mayle, Peter Schmelcher	 Abstract: The formation of ultracold molecules via stimulated emission followed by a radiative deexcitation cascade in the presence of a static electric field is investigated. By analyzing the corresponding cross sections, we demonstrate the possibility to populate the lowest rotational excitations via photoassociation. The modification of the radiative cascade due to the electric field leads to narrow rotational state distributions in the vibrational ground state. External fields might therefore represent an additional valuable tool towards the ultimate goal of quantum state preparation of molecules. 
0704.02936	Generalized MICZ-Kepler Problems and Unitary Highest Weight Modules --  II	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Guowu Meng	 Abstract: For each integer $n\ge 2$, we demonstrate that a 2n-dimensional generalized MICZ-Kepler problem has an $\widetilde{\mr{Spin}}(2, 2n+1)$ dynamical symmetry which extends the manifest $\mr{Spin}(2n)$ symmetry. The Hilbert space of bound states is shown to form a unitary highest weight $\widetilde{\mr{Spin}}(2, 2n+1)$-module which occurs at the first reduction point in the Enright-Howe-Wallach classification diagram for the unitary highest weight modules. As a byproduct, we get a simple geometric realization for such a unitary highest weight $\widetilde{\mr{Spin}}(2, 2n+1)$-module. 
0704.02937	Quantum Parrondo's game with random strategies	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:J. Kosik, J. A. Miszczak, V. Buzek	 Abstract: We present a quantum implementation of Parrondo's game with randomly switched strategies using 1) a quantum walk as a source of ``randomness'' and 2) a completely positive (CP) map as a randomized evolution. The game exhibits the same paradox as in the classical setting where a combination of two losing strategies might result in a winning strategy. We show that the CP-map scheme leads to significantly lower net gain than the quantum walk scheme. 
0704.02938	Improving Stellar and Planetary Parameters of Transiting Planet Systems:  The Case of TrES-2	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Sozzetti (1,2), G. Torres (1), D. Charbonneau (1), D.W. Latham (1), M.J. Holman (1), J.N. Winn (3), J.B. Laird (4), F.T. O'Donovan (5) ((1) Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, (2) Osservatorio Astronomico di Torino, (3) Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (4) Bowling Green State University, (5) California Institute of Technology)	 Abstract: We report on a spectroscopic determination of the atmospheric parameters and chemical abundance of the parent star of the recently discovered transiting planet {TrES-2}. A detailed LTE analysis of a set of \ion{Fe}{1} and \ion{Fe}{2} lines from our Keck spectra yields $T_\mathrm{eff} = 5850\pm 50$ K, $\log g = 4.4\pm 0.1$, and [Fe/H] $= -0.15\pm 0.10$. Several independent checks (e.g., additional spectroscopy, line-depth ratios) confirm the reliability of our spectroscopic $T_\mathrm{eff}$ estimate. The mass and radius of the star, needed to determine the properties of the planet, are traditionally inferred by comparison with stellar evolution models using $T_\mathrm{eff}$ and some measure of the stellar luminosity, such as the spectroscopic surface gravity (when a trigonometric parallax is unavailable, as in this case). We apply here a new method in which we use instead of $\log g$ the normalized separation $a/R_\star$ (related to the stellar density), which can be determined directly from the light curves of transiting planets with much greater precision. With the $a/R_\star$ value from the light curve analysis of Holman et al. \citeyearpar{holman07b} and our $T_\mathrm{eff}$ estimate we obtain $M_\star = 0.980\pm0.062 M_\odot$ and $R_\star = 1.000_{-0.033}^{+0.036} R_\odot$, and an evolutionary age of $5.1^{+2.7}_{-2.3}$ Gyr, in good agreement with other constraints based on the strength of the emission in the \ion{Ca}{2} H & K line cores, the Lithium abundance, and rotation. The new stellar parameters yield improved values for the planetary mass and radius of $M_p = 1.198 \pm 0.053 M_\mathrm{Jup}$ and $R_p = 1.220^{+0.045}_{-0.042} R_\mathrm{Jup}$, confirming that {TrES-2} is the most massive among the currently known nearby ($d\lesssim 300$ pc) transiting hot Jupiters. [Abridged] 
0704.02939	Multiple scalar particle decay and perturbation generation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ki-Young Choi, Jinn-Ouk Gong	 Abstract: We study the evolution of the universe which contains a multiple number of non-relativistic scalar fields decaying into both radiation and pressureless matter. We present a powerful analytic formalism to calculate the matter and radiation curvature perturbations, and find that our analytic estimates agree with full numerical results within an error of less than one percent. Also we discuss the isocurvature perturbation between matter and radiation components, which may be detected by near future cosmological observations, and point out that it crucially depends on the branching ratio of the decay rate of the scalar fields and that it is hard to make any model independent predictions. 
0704.02940	Fidelity approach to quantum phase transitions: finite size scaling for  quantum Ising model in a transverse field	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Huan-Qiang Zhou, Jian-Hui Zhao, Bo Li	 Abstract: We analyze the scaling parameter, extracted from the fidelity for two different ground states, for the one-dimensional quantum Ising model in a transverse field near the critical point. It is found that, in the thermodynamic limit, the scaling parameter is singular, and the derivative of its logarithmic function with respect to the transverse field strength is logarithmically divergent at the critical point. The scaling behavior is confirmed numerically by performing a finite size scaling analysis for systems of different sizes, consistent with the conformal invariance at the critical point. This allows us to extract the correlation length critical exponent, which turns out to be universal in the sense that the correlation length critical exponent does not depend on either the anisotropic parameter or the transverse field strength. 
0704.02941	Experimental Decoy Quantum Key Distribution Up To 130KM Fiber	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Zhen-Qiang Yin, Zheng-Fu Han, Wei Chen, Fang-Xing Xu, Qing-Lin Wu, Guang-Can Guo	 Abstract: Decoy State Quantum Key Distribution (QKD), being capable of beating PNS attack and uncon- ditionally secure, have become an attractive one recently. But, in many QKD systems, disturbances of transmission channel make quantum bit error rate (QBER) increase which limits both security distance and key bit rate of real-life decoy state QKD systems. We demonstrate the two-intensity decoy QKD with one-way Faraday-Michelson phase modulation system, which is free of channel dis- turbance and keeps interference fringe visibility (99%) long period, near 130KM single mode optical fiber in telecom (1550 nm) wavelength. This is longest distance fiber decoy state QKD system based on two intensity protocol. 
0704.02942	The Star-forming Region NGC 346 in the Small Magellanic Cloud with  Hubble Space Telescope ACS Observations. II. Photometric Study of the  Intermediate-Age Star Cluster BS 90	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Boyke Rochau, Dimitrios A. Gouliermis, Wolfgang Brandner, Andrew E. Dolphin, Thomas Henning	 Abstract: We present the results of our investigation of the intermediate-age star cluster BS 90, located in the vicinity of the HII region N 66 in the SMC, observed with HST/ACS. The high-resolution data provide a unique opportunity for a very detailed photometric study performed on one of the rare intermediate-age rich SMC clusters. The complete set of observations is centered on the association NGC 346 and contains almost 100,000 stars down to V ~28 mag. In this study we focus on the northern part of the region, which covers almost the whole stellar content of BS 90. We construct its stellar surface density profile and derive structural parameters. Isochrone fits on the CMD of the cluster results in an age of about 4.5 Gyr. The luminosity function is constructed and the present-day mass function of BS 90 has been obtained using the mass-luminosity relation, derived from the isochrone models. We found a slope between -1.30 and -0.95, comparable or somewhat shallower than a typical Salpeter IMF. Examination of the radial dependence of the mass function shows a steeper slope at larger radial distances, indicating mass segregation in the cluster. The derived half-mass relaxation time of 0.95 Gyr suggests that the cluster is mass segregated due to its dynamical evolution. From the isochrone model fits we derive a metallicity for BS 90 of [Fe/H]=-0.72, which adds an important point to the age-metallicity relation of the SMC. We discuss our findings on this relation in comparison to other SMC clusters. 
0704.02943	Impact of dimensionless numbers on the efficiency of MRI-induced  turbulent transport	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G. Lesur, P-Y. Longaretti (LAOG)	 Abstract: The magneto-rotational instability is presently the most promising source of turbulent transport in accretion disks. However, some important issues still need to be addressed to quantify the role of MRI in disks; in particular no systematic investigation of the role of the physical dimensionless parameters of the problem on the dimensionless transport has been undertaken yet. First, we complete existing investigations on the field strength dependence by showing that the transport in high magnetic pressure disks close to marginal stability is highly time-dependent and surprisingly efficient. Second, we bring to light a significant dependence of the global transport on the magnetic Prandtl number, with $\alpha\propto Pm^\delta$ for the explored range: $0.12<Pm<8$ and $200<Re<6400$ ($\delta$ being in the range 0.25 to 0.5). We show that the dimensionless transport is not correlated to the dimensionless linear growth rate, contrarily to a largely held expectation. More generally, these results stress the need to control dissipation processes in astrophysical simulations. 
0704.02944	Statistics of neutrinos and the double beta decay	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:A.S. Barabash, A.D. Dolgov, R. Dvornicky, F. Simkovic, A.Yu. Smirnov	 Abstract: We assume that the Pauli exclusion principle is violated for neutrinos, and thus, neutrinos obey at least partly the Bose-Einstein statistics. The parameter sin^2 chi is introduced that characterizes the bosonic (symmetric) fraction of the neutrino wave function. Consequences of the violation of the exclusion principle for the two-neutrino double beta decays are considered. This violation strongly changes the rates of the decays and modifies the energy and angular distributions of the emitted electrons. Pure bosonic neutrinos are excluded by the present data. In the case of partly bosonic (or mixed-statistics) neutrinos the analysis of the existing data allows to put the conservative upper bound sin^2 chi < 0.6. The sensitivity of future measurements of the two-neutrino double beta decay to sin^2 chi is evaluated. 
0704.02945	Renormalization group flows and quantum phase transitions: fidelity  versus entanglement	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Huan-Qiang Zhou	 Abstract: We compare the roles of fidelity and entanglement in characterizing renormalization group flows and quantum phase transitions. It turns out that the scaling parameter extracted from fidelity for different ground states succeeds to capture nontrivial information including stable and unstable fixed points, whereas the von Neumann entropy as a bipartite entanglement measure (or equivalently, majorization relations satisfied by the spectra of the reduced density matrix along renormalization group flows) often fails, as far as the intrinsic irreversibility-information loss along renormalization group flows-is concerned. We also clarify an intimate connection between the von Neumman entropy, majorization relations, and fidelity. The relevance to Zamolodchikov's c theorem is indicated. 
0704.02946	Background study for the pn-CCD detector of CERN Axion Solar Telescope	Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)	Authors:S. Cebrián (1), A. Rodríguez (1), M. Kuster (2,3,4), B. Beltrán (1), J. M. Carmona (1), H. Gómez (1), R. Hartmann (5), I. G. Irastorza (1), R. Kotthaus (6), G. Luzón (1), J. Morales (1), A. Ortiz de Solórzano (1), J. Ruz (1), L. Strüder (7,8), J. A. Villar,  ((1) Universidad de Zaragoza, (2) Technische Universität Darmstadt - IKP, (3) MPE Garching, (4) Gesellschaft für Schwerionenforschung - GSI, (5) PNSensor GmbH, (6) Max-Planck-Institut für Physik, (7) MPI Halbleiterlabor, (8) MPE Garching)	 Abstract: The CERN Axion Solar Telescope (CAST) experiment searches for axions from the Sun converted into photons with energies up to around 10 keV via the inverse Primakoff effect in the high magnetic field of a superconducting Large Hadron Collider (LHC) prototype magnet. A backside illuminated pn-CCD detector in conjunction with an X-ray mirror optics is one of the three detectors used in CAST to register the expected photon signal. Since this signal is very rare and different background components (environmental gamma radiation, cosmic rays, intrinsic radioactive impurities in the set-up, ...) entangle it, a detailed study of the detector background has been undertaken with the aim to understand and further reduce the background level of the detector. The analysis is based on measured data taken during the Phase I of CAST and on Monte Carlo simulations of different background components. This study will show that the observed background level (at a rate of (8.00+-0.07)10^-5 counts/cm^2/s/keV between 1 and 7 keV) seems to be dominated by the external gamma background due to usual activities at the experimental site, while radioactive impurities in the detector itself and cosmic neutrons could make just smaller contribution. 
0704.02947	Tables of graphs of binary and ternary sequences differentiation	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:E.Yu. Lerner	 Abstract: Let $x$ be a cyclic sequence of $n$ elements of the finite field $\mathbb{F}_q$ (the first element immediately follows the $n$-th one). Let us define the operation $\Delta$ as the transition from $x$ to the sequence of differences of the neighbouring elements from $x$. The aim of this work is to give graphs of the dynamic system $\Delta$ for $q=2$, $n\le 300$ and $q=3$, $n\le 150$. These results enable us to define more precisely the Arnold hypotheses and to prove them. 
0704.02948	The pseudo-effective cone of a non-Kählerian surface and applications	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Andrei Teleman	 Abstract: We describe the positive cone and the pseudo-effective cone of a non-K\"ahlerian surface. We use these results for two types of applications: - Describe the set $\sigma(X)$ of possible total Ricci scalars associated with Gauduchon metrics of fixed volume 1 on a fixed non-K\"ahhlerian surface, and decide whether the assignment $X\mapsto\sigma(X)$ is a deformation invariant. - Study the stability of the canonical extension $$0\to {\cal K}_X\to {\cal A}\to{\cal O}_X\to 0$$ of a class VII surface $X$ with positive $b_2$. This extension plays an important role in our strategy to prove the GSS conjecture using gauge theoretical methods. 
0704.02949	Optimizing future imaging survey of galaxies to confront dark energy and  modified gravity models	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Kazuhiro Yamamoto, David Parkinson, Takashi Hamana, Robert C. Nichol, Yasushi Suto	 Abstract: We consider the extent to which future imaging surveys of galaxies can distinguish between dark energy and modified gravity models for the origin of the cosmic acceleration. Dynamical dark energy models may have similar expansion rates as models of modified gravity, yet predict different growth of structure histories. We parameterize the cosmic expansion by the two parameters, $w_0$ and $w_a$, and the linear growth rate of density fluctuations by Linder's $\gamma$, independently. Dark energy models generically predict $\gamma \approx 0.55$, while the DGP model $\gamma \approx 0.68$. To determine if future imaging surveys can constrain $\gamma$ within 20 percent (or $\Delta\gamma<0.1$), we perform the Fisher matrix analysis for a weak lensing survey such as the on-going Hyper Suprime-Cam (HSC) project. Under the condition that the total observation time is fixed, we compute the Figure of Merit (FoM) as a function of the exposure time $\texp$. We find that the tomography technique effectively improves the FoM, which has a broad peak around $\texp\simeq {\rm several}\sim 10$ minutes; a shallow and wide survey is preferred to constrain the $\gamma$ parameter. While $\Delta\gamma < 0.1$ cannot be achieved by the HSC weak-lensing survey alone, one can improve the constraints by combining with a follow-up spectroscopic survey like WFMOS and/or future CMB observations. 
0704.02950	Pseudo-localization of singular integrals and noncommutative  Calderon-Zygmund theory	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Javier Parcet	 Abstract: In this paper we obtain the weak type (1,1) boundedness of Calderon-Zygmund operators acting over operator-valued functions. Our main tools for its solution are a noncommutative form of Calderon-Zygmund decomposition in conjunction with a pseudo-localization principle for singular integrals, which is new even in the classical setting and of independent interest. Perhaps because of the hidden role of pseudo-localization and almost orthogonality, this problem has remained open for quite some time. We also consider Calderon-Zygmund operators associated to certain operator-valued kernels. 
0704.02951	Recursive weighted treelike networks	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Zhongzhi Zhang, Shuigeng Zhou, Lichao Chen, Jihong Guan, Lujun Fang, Yichao Zhang	 Abstract: We propose a geometric growth model for weighted scale-free networks, which is controlled by two tunable parameters. We derive exactly the main characteristics of the networks, which are partially determined by the parameters. Analytical results indicate that the resulting networks have power-law distributions of degree, strength, weight and betweenness, a scale-free behavior for degree correlations, logarithmic small average path length and diameter with network size. The obtained properties are in agreement with empirical data observed in many real-life networks, which shows that the presented model may provide valuable insight into the real systems. 
0704.02952	Selective cloning of Gaussian states by linear optics	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Stefano Olivares	 Abstract: We investigate the performances of a selective cloning machine based on linear optical elements and Gaussian measurements, which allows to clone at will one of the two incoming input states. This machine is a complete generalization of a 1 to 2 cloning scheme demonstrated by U. L. Andersen et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. vol. 94, 240503 (2005)]. The input-output fidelity is studied for generic Gaussian input state and the effect of non-unit quantum efficiency is also taken into account. We show that if the states to be cloned are squeezed states with known squeezing parameter, then the fidelity can be enhanced using a third suitable squeezed state during the final stage of the cloning process. A binary communication protocol based on the selective cloning machne is also discussed. 
0704.02953	A link polynomial via a vertex-edge-face state model	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Thomas Fiedler	 Abstract: We construct a 2-variable link polynomial, called $W_L$, for classical links by considering simultaneously the Kauffman state models for the Alexander and for the Jones polynomials. We conjecture that this polynomial is the product of two 1-variable polynomials, one of which is the Alexander polynomial. We refine $W_L$ to an ordered set of 3-variable polynomials for those links in 3-space which contain a Hopf link as a sublink. 
0704.02954	Characteristics of phonon transmission across epitaxial interfaces: a  lattice dynamic study	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Jian Wang, Jian-Sheng Wang	 Abstract: Phonon transmission across epitaxial interfaces is studied within the lattice dynamic approach. The transmission shows weak dependence on frequency for the lattice wave with a fixed angle of incidence. The dependence on azimuth angle is found to be related to the symmetry of the boundary interface. The transmission varies smoothly with the change of the incident angle. A critical angle of incidence exists when the phonon is incident from the side with large group velocities to the side with low ones. No significant mode conversion is observed among different acoustic wave branches at the interface, except when the incident angle is near the critical value. Our theoretical result of the Kapitza conductance $G_{K}$ across the Si-Ge (100) interface at temperature $T=200 $K is $4.6\times10^{8} {\rm WK}^{-1}{\rmm}^{-2}$. A scaling law $G_K \propto T^{2.87}$ at low temperature is also reported. Based on the features of transmission obtained within lattice dynamic approach, we propose a simplified formula for thermal conductanceacross the epitaxial interface. A reasonable consistency is found between the calculated values and the experimentally measured ones. 
0704.02955	How a "Hit" is Born: The Emergence of Popularity from the Dynamics of  Collective Choice	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Sitabhra Sinha, Raj Kumar Pan	 Abstract: In recent times there has been a surge of interest in seeking out patterns in the aggregate behavior of socio-economic systems. One such domain is the emergence of statistical regularities in the evolution of collective choice from individual behavior. This is manifested in the sudden emergence of popularity or "success" of certain ideas or products, compared to their numerous, often very similar, competitors. In this paper, we present an empirical study of a wide range of popularity distributions, spanning from scientific paper citations to movie gross income. Our results show that in the majority of cases, the distribution follows a log-normal form, suggesting that multiplicative stochastic processes are the basis for emergence of popular entities. This suggests the existence of some general principles of complex organization leading to the emergence of popularity. We discuss the theoretical principles needed to explain this socio-economic phenomenon, and present a model for collective behavior that exhibits bimodality, which has been observed in certain empirical popularity distributions. 
0704.02956	Effective Field Theory, Renormalizability and Extra Dimensions	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Bei Jia	 Abstract: We discuss in this paper two ways of defining the concept of "effective field theory": effective field theory defined by low energy effectiveness and effective field theory defined by 4D effectiveness out of higher dimensions. We argue that these two views are actually equivalent, that effective field theories at low energy can in fact be regarded as field theories of higher dimensions confined on a 4D spcaetime. We examine this idea through comparing two different regularization schemes: Momentum Cutoff and Dimensional Regularization, and through analyzing how fields can be localized on branes. 
0704.02957	Superfluid-Insulator Transition of Strongly Interacting Fermi Gases in  Optical Lattices	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Hui Zhai, Tin-Lun Ho	 Abstract: We study a quantum phase transition between fermion superfluid (SF) and band insulator (BI) of fermions in optical lattices. The destruction of the band insulator is driven by the energy gain in promoting fermions from valance band to various conducting bands to form Cooper pairs. We show that the transition must take place in rather shallow lattice height, $V_{o}/E_{R}$ between 2.23 and 4.14. The latter is the prediction of mean field theory while the former is the value for opening a band gap. As one moves across resonance to the molecule side, the SF-BI transition evolves into the SF-Mott insulator transition of bosonic molecules. We shall also present the global phase diagram for SF-Insulator transition for the BCS-BEC family. 
0704.02958	Why are accreting T Tauri stars observed to be less luminous in X-rays  than non-accretors?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. G. Gregory, K. Wood, M. Jardine	 Abstract: Accreting T Tauri stars are observed to be less luminous in X-rays than non-accretors, an effect that has been detected in various star forming regions. To explain this we have combined, for the first time, a radiative transfer code with an accretion model that considers magnetic fields extrapolated from surface magnetograms obtained from Zeeman-Doppler imaging. Such fields consist of compact magnetic regions close to the stellar surface, with extended field lines interacting with the disc. We study the propagation of coronal X-rays through the magnetosphere and demonstrate that they are strongly absorbed by the dense gas in accretion columns. The reduction in the observed X-ray emission depends on the field geometry, which may explain why accreting T Tauri stars show a larger scatter in their observed X-ray luminosity compared to non-accreting stars. 
0704.02959	Geometry of PT-symmetric quantum mechanics	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Carl M. Bender, Dorje C. Brody, Lane P. Hughston, Bernhard K. Meister	 Abstract: Recently, much research has been carried out on Hamiltonians that are not Hermitian but are symmetric under space-time reflection, that is, Hamiltonians that exhibit PT symmetry. Investigations of the Sturm-Liouville eigenvalue problem associated with such Hamiltonians have shown that in many cases the entire energy spectrum is real and positive and that the eigenfunctions form an orthogonal and complete basis. Furthermore, the quantum theories determined by such Hamiltonians have been shown to be consistent in the sense that the probabilities are positive and the dynamical trajectories are unitary. However, the geometrical structures that underlie quantum theories formulated in terms of such Hamiltonians have hitherto not been fully understood. This paper studies in detail the geometric properties of a Hilbert space endowed with a parity structure and analyses the characteristics of a PT-symmetric Hamiltonian and its eigenstates. A canonical relationship between a PT-symmetric operator and a Hermitian operator is established. It is shown that the quadratic form corresponding to the parity operator, in particular, gives rise to a natural partition of the Hilbert space into two halves corresponding to states having positive and negative PT norm. The indefiniteness of the norm can be circumvented by introducing a symmetry operator C that defines a positive definite inner product by means of a CPT conjugation operation. 
0704.02960	An Exact Bosonization Rule for c=1 Noncritical String Theory	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:N. Ishibashi, A. Yamaguchi	 Abstract: We construct a string field theory for c=1 noncritical strings using the loop variables as the string field. We show how one can express the nonrelativistic free fermions which describes the theory, in terms of these string fields. 
0704.02961	On maximal entanglement between two pairs in four-qubit pure states	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Stephen Brierley, Atsushi Higuchi	 Abstract: We show that the state with the highest known average two-particle von Neumann entanglement entropy proposed by Sudbery and one of the authors gives a local maximum of this entropy. We also show that this is not the case for an alternative highly entangled state proposed by Brown et al. 
0704.02962	The Rotation of Sub-Populations in omega Centauri	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:E. Pancino (1), A. Galfo (2), F.R. Ferraro (2), M. Bellazzini (1) ((1) INAF, Osservatorio di Bologna, Italy, (2) University of Bologna, Italy)	 Abstract: We present the first result of the Ital-FLAMES survey of red giant branch (RGB) stars in omega Cen. Radial velocities with a precision of ~0.5 km/s are presented for 650 members of omega Cen observed with FLAMES-Giraffe at the Very Large Telescope. We found that stars belonging to the metal -poor (RGB-MP), metal-intemediate (RGB-MInt) and metal-rich (RGB-a) sub -populations of Omega Cen are all compatible with having the same rotational pattern. Our results appear to contradict past findings by Norris et al., who could not detect any rotational signature for metal -rich stars. The slightly higher precision of the present measurements and the much larger sample size, especially for the metal-richer stars, appear as the most likely explanation for this discrepancy. The result presented here weakens the body of evidence in favour of a merger event in the past history of omega Cen. 
0704.02963	Using Access Data for Paper Recommendations on ArXiv.org	Digital Libraries (cs.DL)	Authors:Stefan Pohl	 Abstract: This thesis investigates in the use of access log data as a source of information for identifying related scientific papers. This is done for arXiv.org, the authority for publication of e-prints in several fields of physics. Compared to citation information, access logs have the advantage of being immediately available, without manual or automatic extraction of the citation graph. Because of that, a main focus is on the question, how far user behavior can serve as a replacement for explicit meta-data, which potentially might be expensive or completely unavailable. Therefore, we compare access, content, and citation-based measures of relatedness on different recommendation tasks. As a final result, an online recommendation system has been built that can help scientists to find further relevant literature, without having to search for them actively. 
0704.02964	Fourier Analysis of Biological Evolution: Concept of Selection Moment	Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)	Authors:Ashok Palaniappan	 Abstract: Secondary structure elements of many protein families exhibit differential conservation on their opposing faces. Amphipathic helices and beta-sheets by definition possess this property, and play crucial functional roles. This type of evolutionary trajectory of a protein family is usually critical to the functions of the protein family, as well as in creating functions within subfamilies. That is, differential conservation maintains properties of a protein structure related to its orientation, and that are important in packing, recognition, and catalysis. Here I define and formulate a new concept, called the selection moment, that detects this evolutionary process in protein sequences. A treatment of its various applications is detailed. 
0704.02965	Relativistic corrections of order mα^6 to the two-center problem	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:V.I. Korobov, Ts. Tsogbayar	 Abstract: Effective potentials of the relativistic m\alpha^6 order correction for the ground state of the Coulomb two-center problem are calculated. They can be used to evaluate the relativistic contribution of that order to the energies of hydrogen molecular ions or metastable states of the antiprotonic helium atom, where precision spectroscopic data are available. In our studies we use the variational expansion based on randomly chosen exponents that permits to achieve high numerical accuracy. 
0704.02966	Impurity Scattering and Mott's Formula in Graphene	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Tomas Lofwander, Mikael Fogelstrom	 Abstract: We present calculations of the thermal and electric linear response in graphene, including disorder in the self-consistent t-matrix approximation. For strong impurity scattering, near the unitary limit, the formation of a band of impurity states near the Fermi level leads to that Mott's relation holds at low temperature. For higher temperatures, there are strong deviations due to the linear density of states. The low-temperature thermopower is proportional to the inverse of the impurity potential and the inverse of the impurity density. Information about impurity scattering in graphene can be extracted from the thermopower, either measured directly, or extracted via Mott's relation from the electron-density dependence of the electric conductivity. 
0704.02967	Group-theoretic Description of Riemannian Spaces	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Serhiy E. Samokhvalov	 Abstract: It is shown that a locally geometrical structure of arbitrarily curved Riemannian space is defined by a deformed group of its diffeomorphisms 
0704.02968	Are Bosonic Replicas Faulty?	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Vladimir Al. Osipov, Eugene Kanzieper	 Abstract: Motivated by the ongoing discussion about a seeming asymmetry in the performance of fermionic and bosonic replicas, we present an exact, nonperturbative approach to zero-dimensional replica field theories belonging to the broadly interpreted "beta=2" Dyson symmetry class. We then utilise the formalism developed to demonstrate that the bosonic replicas do correctly reproduce the microscopic spectral density in the QCD inspired chiral Gaussian unitary ensemble. This disproves the myth that the bosonic replica field theories are intrinsically faulty. 
0704.02969	Direct simulation for a homogenous gas	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Hasan Karabulut	 Abstract: A probabilistic analysis of the direct simulation of a homogeneous gas is given. A hierarchy of equations similar to the BBGKY hierarchy for the reduced probability densities is derived. By invoking the molecular chaos assumption, an equation similar to the Boltzmann equation for the single particle probability density and the corresponding H-theorem is derived. 
0704.02970	An absorption origin for the soft excess in Seyfert 1 AGN	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. J. Middleton, C. Done, M. Gierlinski	 Abstract: (abridged) The soft excess seen in the X-ray spectra of many high mass accretion rate AGN can be well modelled by reflection from a partially ionised accretion disc. However, the derived parameters are often extreme, both in terms of the underlying spacetime and the reflection geometry, and these models require that the disc is far from hydrostatic equilibrium. An alternative model uses similarly partially ionised, velocity smeared material but seen in absorption, though again the derived velocities are extreme, requiring magnetic driving (in the jet?) rather than a simple line driven disc wind. We find that while both models give comparably good fits to XMM--Newton data, we favour the absorption model as, unlike reflection, all the derived spectral indices are soft. This is as expected by analogy with the correspondingly high mass accretion rate stellar mass black holes. Furthermore, these X-ray spectra are consistent with a one--to--one mapping between AGN type and spectral state, with NLS1's having softer spectra corresponding to the very high state, while the broad line AGN have Gamma~2 as expected for the high/soft state. We also use the simultaneous OM data to derive the ratio of disc to total accretion power which is another tracer of spectral state in X-ray binaries. This does not always show that the disc in NLS1's contributes less than 80 per cent of the total power, as expected for a very high state. We suggest that this is an artifact of the standard disc models used to determine the disc luminosity in our fits. The disc seen in the very high state of black hole binaries is often observed to be distorted from the standard shape, and a similar effect in NLS1's could recover the correspondance between black hole binary spectral state and AGN type. 
0704.02971	The XMM-SSC survey of hard-spectrum XMM-Newton sources 1: optically  bright sources	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M.J. Page, I. Lehmann, Th. Boller, M.G. Watson, T. Dwelly, S. Hess, I. Matute, N.S. Loaring, S. Rosen, H Ziaeepour, A. Schwope, G. Lamer, F.J. Carrera, J. Tedds, R. Della Ceca, P. Severgnini, R.G. McMahon, W. Yuan	 Abstract: We present optical and X-ray data for a sample of serendipitous XMM-Newton sources that are selected to have 0.5-2 keV vs 2-4.5 keV X-ray hardness ratios which are harder than the X-ray background. The sources have 2-4.5 keV X-ray flux >= 10^-14 cgs, and in this paper we examine a subsample of 42 optically bright (r < 21) sources; this subsample is 100 per cent spectroscopically identified. All but one of the optical counterparts are extragalactic, and we argue that the single exception, a Galactic M star, is probably a coincidental association. The X-ray spectra are consistent with heavily absorbed power laws (21.8 < log NH < 23.4), and all of them appear to be absorbed AGN. The majority of the sources show only narrow emission lines in their optical spectra, implying that they are type-2 AGN. Only a small fraction of the sources (7/42) show broad optical emission lines, and all of these have NH < 10^23 cm^-2. This implies that ratios of X-ray absorption to optical/UV extinction equivalent to > 100 times the Galactic gas-to-dust ratio are rare in AGN absorbers (at most a few percent of the population), and may be restricted to broad absorption-line QSOs. Seven objects appear to have an additional soft X-ray component in addition to the heavily absorbed power law. We consider the implications of our results in the light of the AGN unified scheme. We find that the soft components in narrow-line objects are consistent with the unified scheme provided that > 4 per cent of broad-line AGN have ionised absorbers that attenuate their soft X-ray flux by >50 per cent. In at least one of the X-ray absorbed, broad-line AGN in our sample the X-ray spectrum requires an ionised absorber, consistent with this picture. 
0704.02972	Superconducting state of excitonic insulator	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:E. G. Batyev	 Abstract: A state of an excitonic insulator with the electric current is studied. Initially, in the metallic phase, the electrons and holes are assumed to be moving in the opposite directions, so as the electric current exists. This state is supported by an external condition (the specimen is in an electric circuit with the current). When the temperature decreases, the transition to the ordering state due to formation of the electron--hole pairs is possible (similar to the ordinary state of the excitonic insulator). The properties of the state at zero temperature are investigated. The spectrum of elementary excitations has a gap, and so the conclusion can be made that obtained state is superconducting one. Thus, depending on the external conditions, excitonic insulator behaves itself like the insulator or superconductor. That is correct in the limit of strong overlapping of the electron--hole pairs. 
0704.02973	Entanglement fidelity and measurement of entanglement preserving in  quantum processes	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Yang Xiang, Shi-Jie Xiong	 Abstract: The entanglement fidelity provides a measure of how well the entanglement between two subsystems is preserved in a quantum process. By using a simple model we show that in some cases this quantity in its original definition fails in the measurement of the entanglement preserving. On the contrary, the modified entanglement fidelity, obtained by using a proper local unitary transformation on a subsystem, is shown to exhibit the behavior similar to that of the concurrence in the quantum evolution. 
0704.02974	Spin dephasing due to a random Berry phase	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Pablo San-Jose, Gerd Schön, Alexander Shnirman, Gergely Zarand	 Abstract: We investigate relaxation and dephasing of an electron spin confined in a semiconductor quantum dot and subject to spin-orbit coupling. Even in vanishing magnetic field, B = 0, slow noise coupling to the electron's orbital degree of freedom leads to dephasing of the spin due to a random, in general non-Abelian Berry phase acquired by the spin. For illustration we first present a simple quasiclassical description, then consider a model with 2 orbital states only, and finally present a perturbative quantum treatment appropriate for an electron in a realistic (roughly parabolic, not too strongly confining) quantum dot. We further compare the effect of different sources of noise. While at large magnetic fields phonons dominate the relaxation processes, at low fields electron-hole excitations and possibly 1/f noise may dominate. 
0704.02975	The Vogel-Fulcher-Tamman law in the elastic theory of glass transition	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Kostya Trachenko	 Abstract: We propose that the origin of the Vogel-Fulcher-Tammann law is the increase of the range of elastic interaction between local relaxation events in a liquid. In this picture, we discuss the origin of cooperativity of relaxation, the absence of divergence of relaxation time at a finite temperature and the crossover to a more Arrhenius behaviour at low temperature. 
0704.02976	On the alpha-Amenability of Hypergroups	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Ahmadreza Azimifard	 Abstract: Let $UC(K)$ denote the Banach space of all bounded uniformly continuous functions on a hypergroup $K$. The main results of this article concern on the $\alpha$-amenability of $UC(K)$ and quotients and products of hypergroups. It is also shown that a Sturm-Liouville hypergroup with a positive index is $\alpha$-amenable if and only if $\alpha=1$. 
0704.02977	Liquid elasticity length and universal dynamic crossovers	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:Kostya Trachenko, Vadim Brazhkin	 Abstract: We discuss two main universal dynamic crossovers in a liquid that correspond to relaxation times of 1 ps and $10^{-7}-10^{-6}$ s. We introduce the concept of liquid elasticity length $d_{el}$. At room temperature, $d_{el}$ is several \AA in water and increases to 0.01 mm in honey and 1 mm in tar. We show that on temperature decrease, $d_{el}$ crosses the fundamental lengths of the system, medium-range order $d_m$ and system size $L$. We discuss how $d_{el}=d_m$ and $d_{el}=L$ correspond to the two dynamic crossovers. 
0704.02978	On Loops in the Hyperbolic Locus of the Complex Hénon Map and Their  Monodromies	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Zin Arai	 Abstract: We prove John Hubbard's conjecture on the topological complexity of the hyperbolic horseshoe locus of the complex H\'enon map. Indeed, we show that there exist several non-trivial loops in the locus which generate infinitely many mutually different monodromies. Our main tool is a rigorous computational algorithm for verifying the uniform hyperbolicity of chain recurrent sets. In addition, we show that the dynamics of the real H\'enon map is completely determined by the monodromy of a certain loop, providing the parameter of the map is contained in the hyperbolic horseshoe locus of the complex H\'enon map. 
0704.02979	Kondo effect in transport through molecules adsorbed on metal surfaces:  from Fano dips to Kondo peaks	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:J. M. Aguiar-Hualde, G. Chiappe, E. Louis, E.V. Anda	 Abstract: The Kondo effect observed in recent STM experiments on transport through CoPc and TBrPP-Co molecules adsorbed on Au(111) and Cu(111) surfaces, respectively, is discussed within the framework of a simple model (Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 97}, 076806 (2006)). It is shown that, in the Kondo regime and by varying the adequate model parameters, it is possible to produce a crossover from a conductance Kondo peak (CoPc) to a conductance Fano dip (TBrPP-Co). In the case of TBrPP-Co/Cu(111) we show that the model reproduces the changes in the shape of the Fano dip, the raising of the Kondo temperature and shifting to higher energies of the dip minimum when the number of nearest neighbors molecules is lowered. These features are in line with experimental observations indicating that our simple model contains the essential physics underlying the transport properties of such complex molecules. 
0704.02980	Canonical Deformed Groups of Diffeomorphisms and Finite Parallel  Transports in Riemannian Spaces	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Serhiy E. Samokhvalov	 Abstract: We show that finite parallel transports of vectors in Riemannian spaces, determined by the multiplication law in the deformed groups of diffeomorphisms, and sequences of infinitesimal parallel transports of vectors along geodesics are equivalent. 
0704.02981	Entanglement in the quantum Ising model	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Geoffrey Grimmett, Tobias Osborne, Petra Scudo	 Abstract: We study the asymptotic scaling of the entanglement of a block of spins for the ground state of the one-dimensional quantum Ising model with transverse field. When the field is sufficiently strong, the entanglement grows at most logarithmically in the number of spins. The proof utilises a transformation to a model of classical probability called the continuum random-cluster model, and is based on a property of the latter model termed ratio weak-mixing. Our proof applies equally to a large class of disordered interactions. 
0704.02982	Methanol masers as tools to study high-mass star formation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Michele Pestalozzi	 Abstract: In this contribution I will attempt to show that the study of galactic 6.7 and 12.2GHz methanol masers themselves, as opposed to the use of methanol masers as signposts, can yield important conclusions contributing to the understanding of high-mass star formation. Due to their exclusive association with star formation, methanol masers are the best tools to do this, and their large number allows to probe the entire Galaxy. In particular I will focus on the determination of the luminosity function of methanol masers and on the determination of an unambiguous signature for a circumstellar masing disc seen edge-on. Finally I will try to point out some future fields of research in the study of methanol masers. 
0704.02983	Prospects for Stochastic Background Searches Using Virgo and LSC  Interferometers	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Giancarlo Cella, Carlo Nicola Colacino, Elena Cuoco, Angela Di Virgilio, Tania Regimbau, Emma L Robinson, John T Whelan (for the LSC-Virgo working group on stochastic backgrounds)	 Abstract: We consider the question of cross-correlation measurements using Virgo and the LSC Interferometers (LIGO Livingston, LIGO Hanford, and GEO600) to search for a stochastic gravitational-wave background. We find that inclusion of Virgo into the network will substantially improve the sensitivity to correlations above 200 Hz if all detectors are operating at their design sensitivity. This is illustrated using a simulated isotropic stochastic background signal, generated with an astrophysically-motivated spectrum, injected into 24 hours of simulated noise for the LIGO and Virgo interferometers. 
0704.02984	Globally stable quasistatic evolution in plasticity with softening	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Gianni Dal Maso, Antonio DeSimone, Maria Giovanna Mora, Massimiliano Morini	 Abstract: We study a relaxed formulation of the quasistatic evolution problem in the context of small strain associative elastoplasticity with softening. The relaxation takes place in spaces of generalized Young measures. The notion of solution is characterized by the following properties: global stability at each time and energy balance on each time interval. An example developed in detail compares the solutions obtained by this method with the ones provided by a vanishing viscosity approximation, and shows that only the latter capture a decreasing branch in the stress-strain response. 
0704.02985	Electronic structure of BaFeO3: an abinitio DFT study	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Hong-Jian Feng, Fa-Min Liu	 Abstract: First principles calculations were performed to study the ground state electronic properties of BaFeO3 (BFO) within the density functional theory (DFT). Adopting generalized gradient approximation (GGA) exchange and correlation functional and Vosko-Wilk-Nusair correlation energy functional interpolation, we have systematically conducted the band structure, density of states and electronic distribution along different crystalline planes. Calculating results show that band gap in the majority spin band structure and band gap in the minority spin band structure were found to be 2.7012 eV and 0.6867 eV respectively. Up-spin Fe t2g were fully occupied and down-spin Fe eg were empty. Moreover, the up-spin Fe eg and down-spin Fe t2g were partially occupied near the Fermi energy, leading to a finite density of states. The Fe4+-O-Fe4+ plane superexchange coupling should rearrange the magnetic order to make the ferromagnetic characteristic being possible, moreover the tetragonal displacement along the c axis could induce the perovskites materials to acquire ferroelectric property. These reasons could lead to the fact that the tetragonal phase BFO could be a potential multiferroics while it was produced under the very experimental conditions. The charge density along different crystalline planes were illustrated to show that strong covalent bonding between O and Fe can be used to investigate the exchange coupling, and this strong hybridization may further increase the superexchange coupling to enhance the magnetic ordering. 
0704.02986	States of Low Energy on Robertson-Walker Spacetimes	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Heiner Olbermann	 Abstract: We construct a new class of physical states of the free Klein-Gordon field in Robertson-Walker spacetimes. This is done by minimizing the expectation value of smeared stress-energy. We get an explicit expression for the state depending on the smearing function. We call it a state of low energy. States of low energy are an improvement of the concept of adiabatic vacua on Robertson-Walker spacetimes. The latter are approximations of the former. It is shown that states of low energy are Hadamard states. 
0704.02987	How tight is the Lieb-Oxford bound?	Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)	Authors:Mariana M. Odashima, K. Capelle	 Abstract: Density-functional theory requires ever better exchange-correlation (xc) functionals for the ever more precise description of many-body effects on electronic structure. Universal constraints on the xc energy are important ingredients in the construction of improved functionals. Here we investigate one such universal property of xc functionals: the Lieb-Oxford lower bound on the exchange-correlation energy, $E_{xc}[n] \ge -C \int d^3r n^{4/3}$, where $C\leq C_{LO}=1.68$. To this end, we perform a survey of available exact or near-exact data on xc energies of atoms, ions, molecules, solids, and some model Hamiltonians (the electron liquid, Hooke's atom and the Hubbard model). All physically realistic density distributions investigated are consistent with the tighter limit $C \leq 1$. For large classes of systems one can obtain class-specific (but not fully universal) similar bounds. The Lieb-Oxford bound with $C_{LO}=1.68$ is a key ingredient in the construction of modern xc functionals, and a substantial change in the prefactor $C$ will have consequences for the performance of these functionals. 
0704.02988	On solving systems of random linear disequations	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Gabor Ivanyos	 Abstract: An important subcase of the hidden subgroup problem is equivalent to the shift problem over abelian groups. An efficient solution to the latter problem would serve as a building block of quantum hidden subgroup algorithms over solvable groups. The main idea of a promising approach to the shift problem is reduction to solving systems of certain random disequations in finite abelian groups. The random disequations are actually generalizations of linear functions distributed nearly uniformly over those not containing a specific group element in the kernel. In this paper we give an algorithm which finds the solutions of a system of N random linear disequations in an abelian p-group A in time polynomial in N, where N=(log|A|)^{O(q)}, and q is the exponent of A. 
0704.02989	On the geometric quantization of twisted Poisson manifolds	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Fani Petalidou	 Abstract: We study the geometric quantization process for twisted Poisson manifolds. First, we introduce the notion of Lichnerowicz-twisted Poisson cohomology for twisted Poisson manifolds and we use it in order to characterize their prequantization bundles and to establish their prequantization condition. Next, we introduce a polarization and we discuss the quantization problem. In each step, several examples are presented. 
0704.02990	The principle of a virtual multi-channel lock-in amplifier and its  application to magnetoelectric measurement system	Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)	Authors:Jun Lu, De-An Pan, Lijie Qiao	 Abstract: This letter presents principles and applications of a virtual multi-channel lock-in amplifier that is a simple but effective method to recover small ac signal from noise with high presison. The fundamentals of this method are based on calculation of cross-correlation function. Via this method, we successfully built up a magnetoelectric measurement system which can perform precise and versatile measurements without any analog lock-in amplifier. Using the virtual multi-channel lock-in amplifier, the output of the magnetoelectric measurement system is extensively rich in magnetoelectric coupling behaviors, including coupling strength and phase lag, under various dc bias magnetic field and ac magnetic field. 
0704.02991	Second post-Newtonian approximation of scalar-tensor theory of gravity	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Yi Xie, Wei-Tou Ni, Peng Dong, Tian-Yi Huang	 Abstract: Deep space laser ranging missions like ASTROD I (Single-Spacecraft Astrodynamical Space Test of Relativity using Optical Devices) and ASTROD, together with astrometry missions like GAIA and LATOR will be able to test relativistic gravity to an unprecedented level of accuracy. More precisely, these missions will enable us to test relativistic gravity to $10^{-7}-10^{-9}$, and will require 2nd post-Newtonian approximation of relevant theories of gravity. The first post-Newtonian approximation is valid to $10^{-6}$ and the second post-Newtonian is valid to $10^{-12}$ in the solar system. The scalar-tensor theory is widely discussed and used in tests of relativistic gravity, especially after the interests in inflation, cosmological constant and dark energy in cosmology. In the Lagrangian, intermediate-range gravity term has a similar form as cosmological term. Here we present the full second post-Newtonian approximation of the scalar-tensor theory including viable examples of intermediate-range gravity. We use Chandrasekhar's approach to derive the metric coefficients and the equation of the hydrodynamics governing a perfect fluid in the 2nd post-Newtonian approximation in scalar-tensor theory; all terms inclusive of $O(c^{-4})$ are retained consistently in the equation of motion. 
0704.02992	Fluctuation theorems and orbital magnetism in nonequilibrium state	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:A.M. Jayannavar, Mamata Sahoo	 Abstract: We study Langevin dynamics of a driven charged particle in the presence as well as in the absence of magnetic field. We discuss the validity of various work fluctuation theorems using different model potentials and external drives. We also show that one can generate an orbital magnetic moment in a nonequilibrium state which is absent in equilibrium. 
0704.02993	A large scale extinction map of the Galactic Anticenter from 2MASS	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D.Froebrich (1,3), G.C.Murphy (2,3), M.D.Smith (1), J.Walsh (4) ((1) University of Kent, (2) Observatoire de Grenoble, (3) Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies, (4) Trinity College Dublin)	 Abstract: We present a 127deg x 63deg extinction map of the Anticenter of the Galaxy, based on <J-H> and <H-K> colour excess maps from 2MASS. This 8001 square degree map with a resolution of 4 arcminutes is provided as online material. The colour excess ratio <J-H> / <H-K> is used to determine the power law index of the reddening law (\beta) for individual regions contained in the area (e.g. Orion, Perseus, Taurus, Auriga, Monoceros, Camelopardalis, Cassiopeia). On average we find a dominant value of \beta=1.8+-0.2 for the individual clouds, in agreement with the canonical value for the interstellar medium. We also show that there is an internal scatter of \beta values in these regions, and that in some areas more than one dominant \beta value is present. This indicates large scale variations in the dust properties. The analysis of the A_V values within individual regions shows a change in the slope of the column density distribution with distance. This can either be attributed to a change in the governing physical processes in molecular clouds on spatial scales of about 1pc or an A_V dilution with distance in our map. 
0704.02994	Spontaneous Lorentz Violation, Gravity, and Nambu-Goldstone Modes	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:R. Bluhm	 Abstract: A brief summary is presented of recent work examining the fate of the Nambu-Goldstone modes in gravitational theories with spontaneous Lorentz violation. 
0704.02995	Finite determination of regular (a,b)-modules	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Daniel Barlet (IECN, Iuf)	 Abstract: The concept of (a,b)-module comes from the study the Gauss-Manin lattices of an isolated singularity of a germ of an holomorphic function. It is a very simple ''abstract algebraic structure'', but very rich, whose prototype is the formal completion of the Brieskorn-module of an isolated singularity. The aim of this article is to prove a very basic theorem on regular (a,b)-modules showing that a given regular (a,b)-module is completely characterized by some ''finite order jet'' of its structure. Moreover a very simple bound for such a sufficient order is given in term of the rank and of two very simple invariants : the regularity order which count the number of times you need to apply \ $b^{-1}.a \simeq \partial_z.z$ in order to reach a simple pole (a,b)-module. The second invariant is the ''width'' which corresponds, in the simple pole case, to the maximal integral difference between to eigenvalues of $b^{-1}.a$ (the logarithm of the monodromy). In the computation of examples this theorem is quite helpfull because it tells you at which power of $b$ in the expansions you may stop without loosing any information. 
0704.02996	Low regularity local well-posedness of the Derivative Nonlinear  Schrödinger Equation with periodic initial data	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:A. Grünrock, S. Herr	 Abstract: The Cauchy problem for the derivative nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation with periodic boundary condition is considered. Local well-posedness for periodic initial data u_0 in the space ^H^s_r, defined by the norms ||u_0||_{^H^s_r}=||<xi>^s ^u_0||_{l^r'} is shown in the parameter range s>= 1/2, 2>r>4/3. The proof is based on an adaptation of the gauge transform to the periodic setting and an appropriate variant of the Fourier restriction norm method. 
0704.02997	A Possible Stellar Metallic Enhancement in Post-T Tauri Stars by a  Planetesimal Bombardment	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:O.C. Winter, R. de la Reza, R.C. Domingos, L.A.G. Boldrin, C. Chavero	 Abstract: The photospheres of stars hosting planets have larger metallicity than stars lacking planets. In the present work we study the possibility of an earlier metal enrichment of the photospheres by means of impacting planetesimals during the first 20-30Myr. Here we explore this contamination process by simulating the interactions of an inward migrating planet with a disc of planetesimal interior to its orbit. The results show the percentage of planetesimals that fall on the star. We identified the dependence of the planet's eccentricity ($e_p$) and time scale of migration ($\tau$) on the rate of infalling planetesimals. For very fast migrations ($\tau=10^2$yr and $\tau=10^3$yr) there is no capture in mean motion resonances, independently of the value of $e_p$. Then, due to the planet's migration the planetesimals suffer close approaches with the planet and more than 80% of them are ejected from the system. For slow migrations ($\tau=10^5$yr and $\tau=10^6$yr) the percentage of collisions with the planet decrease with the increase of the planet's eccentricity. For $e_p=0$ and $e_p=0.1$ most of the planetesimals were captured in the 2:1 resonance and more than 65% of them collided with the star. Whereas migration of a Jupiter mass planet to very short pericentric distances requires unrealistic high disc masses, these requirements are much smaller for smaller migrating planets. Our simulations for a slowly migrating 0.1 $M_{\rm Jupiter}$ planet, even demanding a possible primitive disc three times more massive than a primitive solar nebula, produces maximum [Fe/H] enrichments of the order of 0.18 dex. These calculations open possibilities to explain hot Jupiters exoplanets metallicities. 
0704.02998	Reconciliation of Zero-Point and Dark Energies in a Friedman Dust  Universe with Einstein's Lambda	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:James G. Gilson	 Abstract: In this paper, it is shown that the cosmological model that was introduced in a sequence of three earlier papers under the title, A Dust Universe Solution to the Dark Energy Problem, can be used to resolve the problem of the great mismatch of numerical values between dark energy from cosmology and zero point energy from quantum theory. It is shown that, if the zero point energies for the cosmic microwave background and for all the rest of the universe that is not cosmic microwave background are introduced into this model as two entities, their separate values appear within this theory in the form of a numerical difference. It is this difference that gives the numerical value for the zero point value of Einstein's dark energy density. Consequently, although the two zero point energies may be large, their difference can give the known small dark energy value from cosmology for dark energy density. Issues relating to interpretation, calculation and measurement associated with this result and an interpretation of dark energy as a measure of polarisation of the vacuum are discussed. In the first appendix to this paper, problems associated with the standard model of cosmology are solved by redefining temperature in the dust universe model. In the second appendix of this paper, an examination of the dark matter problem in relation to a general relativistic generalisation of Newton's inverse square law is undertaken. In the third appendix to this paper, the formalism is used to derive a formula that gives a possible value for the mass of the universe in terms of Newton's gravitation constant, Einstein's Lambda and the velocity of light. All three appendices have their own detailed abstracts. 
0704.02999	Accurate QCD predictions for heavy-quark jets at the Tevatron and LHC	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Andrea Banfi, Gavin P. Salam, Giulia Zanderighi	 Abstract: Heavy-quark jets are important in many of today's collider studies and searches, yet predictions for them are subject to much larger uncertainties than for light jets. This is because of strong enhancements in higher orders from large logarithms, ln(p_t/m_Q). We propose a new definition of heavy-quark jets, which is free of final-state logarithms to all orders and such that all initial-state collinear logarithms can be resummed into the heavy-quark parton distributions. Heavy-jet spectra can then be calculated in the massless approximation, which is simpler than a massive calculation and reduces the theoretical uncertainties by a factor of three. This provides the first ever accurate predictions for inclusive b- and c-jets, and the latter have significant discriminatory power for the intrinsic charm content of the proton. The techniques introduced here could be used to obtain heavy-flavour jet results from existing massless next-to-leading order calculations for a wide range of processes. We also discuss the experimental applicability of our flavoured jet definition. 
0704.03000	Exploiting the directional sensitivity of the Double Chooz near detector	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Kathrin A. Hochmuth, Manfred Lindner, Georg G. Raffelt	 Abstract: In scintillator detectors, the forward displacement of the neutron in the reaction $\bar\nu_e+p\to e^++n$ provides neutrino directional information as demonstrated by the CHOOZ reactor experiment with 2,500 events. The near detector of the forthcoming Double Chooz experiment will collect $1.6\times10^5$ events per year, enough to determine the average neutrino direction with a $1 \sigma$ half-cone aperture of $2.3^\circ$ in one year. It is more difficult to separate the two Chooz reactors that are viewed at a separation angle $\phi=30^\circ$. If their strengths are known and approximately equal, the azimuthal location of each reactor is obtained with $\pm6^\circ$ ($1 \sigma$) and the probability of confusing them with a single source is less than 11%. Five year's data reduce this ``confusion probability'' to less than 0.3%, i.e., a $3 \sigma$ separation is possible. All of these numbers improve rapidly with increasing angular separation of the sources. For a setup with $\phi=90^\circ$ and one year's data, the azimuthal $1 \sigma$ uncertainty for each source decreases to $\pm3.2^\circ$. Of course, for Double Chooz the two reactor locations are known, allowing one instead to measure their individual one-year integrated power output to $\pm11%$ ($1 \sigma$), and their five-year integrated output to $\pm4.8%$ ($1 \sigma$). 
0704.03001	Multidimensional supernova simulations with approximative neutrino  transport. II. Convection and the advective-acoustic cycle in the supernova  core	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:L. Scheck (1), H.-Th. Janka (1), T. Foglizzo (2), K. Kifonidis (1) ((1) MPI for Astrophysics, Garching; (2) Service d'Astrophysique, CEA-Saclay)	 Abstract: By 2D hydrodynamic simulations including a detailed equation of state and neutrino transport, we investigate the interplay between different non-radial hydrodynamic instabilities that play a role during the postbounce accretion phase of collapsing stellar cores. The convective mode of instability, which is driven by negative entropy gradients caused by neutrino heating or by time variations of the shock strength, can be identified clearly by the development of typical Rayleigh-Taylor mushrooms. However, in cases where the gas in the postshock region is rapidly advected towards the gain radius, the growth of such a buoyancy instability can be suppressed. In such a situation the shocked flow nevertheless can develop non-radial asymmetry with an oscillatory growth of the amplitude. This phenomenon has been termed ``standing accretion shock instability'' (SASI). It is shown here that the SASI oscillations can trigger convective instability and like the latter they lead to an increase of the average shock radius and of the mass in the gain layer. Both hydrodynamic instabilities in combination stretch the advection time of matter through the neutrino-heating layer and thus enhance the neutrino energy deposition in support of the neutrino-driven explosion mechanism. A rapidly contracting and more compact nascent NS turns out to be favorable for explosions, because the accretion luminosity and neutrino heating are larger and the growth rate of the SASI is higher. Moreover, we show that the oscillation period of the SASI and a variety of other features in our simulations agree with estimates for the advective-acoustic cycle (AAC), in which perturbations are carried by the accretion flow from the shock to the neutron star and pressure waves close an amplifying global feedback loop. (abridged) 
0704.03002	On the inverse braid monoid	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:Vladimir V. Vershinin	 Abstract: Inverse braid monoid describes a structure on braids where the number of strings is not fixed. So, some strings of initial $n$ may be deleted. In the paper we show that many properties and objects based on braid groups may be extended to the inverse braid monoids. Namely we prove an inclusion into a monoid of partial monomorphisms of a free group. This gives a solution of the word problem. Another solution is obtained by an approach similar to that of Garside. We give also the analogues of Artin presentation with two generators and Sergiescu graph-presentations. 
0704.03003	Deformation principle and further geometrization of physics	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Yuri A. Rylov	 Abstract: The space-time geometry is considered to be a physical geometry, i.e. a geometry described completely by the world function. All geometrical concepts and geometric objects are taken from the proper Euclidean geometry. They are expressed via the Euclidean world function \sigma_E and declared to be concepts and objects of any physical geometry, provided the Euclidean world function \sigma_E is replaced by the world function \sigma of the physical geometry in question. The set of physical geometries is more powerful, than the set of Riemannian geometries, and one needs to choose a true space-time geometry. In general, the physical geometry is multivariant (there are many vectors which are equivalent to a given vector, but are not equivalent between themselves). The multivariance admits one to describe quantum effects as geometric effects and to consider existence of elementary particles as a geometrical problem, when the possibility of the physical existence of an elementary geometric object in the form of a physical body is determined by the space-time geometry. Multivariance admits one to describe discrete and continuous geometries, using the same technique. A use of physical geometry admits one to realize the geometrical approach to the quantum theory and to the theory of elementary particles. 
0704.03004	Four-Quark Condensates in Nucleon QCD Sum Rules	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:R. Thomas, T. Hilger, B. Kampfer	 Abstract: The in-medium behavior of the nucleon spectral density including self-energies is revisited within the framework of QCD sum rules. Special emphasis is given to the density dependence of four-quark condensates. A complete catalog of four-quark condensates is presented and relations among them are derived. Generic differences of such four-quark condensates occurring in QCD sum rules for light baryons and light vector mesons are discussed. 
0704.03005	A balanced memory network	Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)	Authors:Yasser Roudi, Peter E. Latham	 Abstract: A fundamental problem in neuroscience is understanding how working memory -- the ability to store information at intermediate timescales, like 10s of seconds -- is implemented in realistic neuronal networks. The most likely candidate mechanism is the attractor network, and a great deal of effort has gone toward investigating it theoretically. Yet, despite almost a quarter century of intense work, attractor networks are not fully understood. In particular, there are still two unanswered questions. First, how is it that attractor networks exhibit irregular firing, as is observed experimentally during working memory tasks? And second, how many memories can be stored under biologically realistic conditions? Here we answer both questions by studying an attractor neural network in which inhibition and excitation balance each other. Using mean field analysis, we derive a three-variable description of attractor networks. From this description it follows that irregular firing can exist only if the number of neurons involved in a memory is large. The same mean field analysis also shows that the number of memories that can be stored in a network scales with the number of excitatory connections, a result that has been suggested for simple models but never shown for realistic ones. Both of these predictions are verified using simulations with large networks of spiking neurons. 
0704.03006	On the Equilibrium Fluctuations of an Isolated System	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Kieran Kelly, Przemysław Repetowicz, Seosamh macRéamoinn	 Abstract: Traditionally, it is understood that fluctuations in the equilibrium distribution are not evident in thermodynamic systems of large $N$ (the number of particles in the system) \cite{Huang1}. In this paper we examine the validity of this perception by investigating whether such fluctuations can in reality depend on temperature. Firstly, we describe fluctuations in the occupation numbers of the energy levels for an isolated system, using previously unknown identities that we have derived for the purpose, which allow us to calculate the moments of the occupation numbers. Then we compute analytically the probability distribution of these fluctuations. We show that, for every system of fixed and finite $N$, fluctuations about the equilibrium distribution do, in fact, depend on the temperature. Indeed, at higher temperatures the fluctuations can be so large that the system does not fully converge on the Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution but actually fluctuates around it. We term this state, where not one macrostate but a region of macrostates closely fit the underlying distribution, a ``{\it fluctuating equilibrium}''. Finally, we speculate on how this finding is applicable to networks, financial markets, and other thermodynamic-like systems. 
0704.03007	Deformation quantization modules on complex symplectic manifolds	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Pierre Schapira	 Abstract: We study modules over the algebroid stack $\W[\stx]$ of deformation quantization on a complex symplectic manifold $\stx$ and recall some results: construction of an algebra for $\star$-products, existence of (twisted) simple modules along smooth Lagrangian submanifolds, perversity of the complex of solutions for regular holonomic $\W[\stx]$-modules, finiteness and duality for the composition of ``good'' kernels. As a corollary, we get that the derived category of good $\W[\stx]$-modules with compact support is a Calabi-Yau category. We also give a conjectural Riemann-Roch type formula in this framework. 
0704.03008	A Photoevaporating Rotating Disk in the Cepheus A HW2 Star Cluster	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:I. Jimenez-Serra (1), J. Martin-Pintado (1), A. Rodriguez-Franco (1), C. Chandler (2), C. Comito (3), P. Schilke (3) ((1) DAMIR-IEM-CSIC, Spain, (2) NRAO, USA, (3) MPIfR, Germany)	 Abstract: We present VLA and PdBI subarcsecond images (0.15"-0.6") of the radiocontinuum emission at 7 mm and of the SO2 J=19_{2,18}-18_{3,15} and J=27_{8,20}-28_{7,21} lines toward the Cepheus A HW2 region. The SO2 images reveal the presence of a hot core internally heated by an intermediate mass protostar, and a circumstellar rotating disk around the HW2 radio jet with size 600AUx100AU and mass of 1M_sun. Keplerian rotation for the disk velocity gradient of 5 kms-1 requires a 9 M_sun central star, which cannot explain the total luminosity observed in the region. This may indicate that the disk does not rotate with a Keplerian law due to the extreme youth of this object. Our high sensitivity radiocontinuum image at 7 mm shows in addition to the ionized jet, an extended emission to the west (and marginally to the south) of the HW2 jet, filling the south-west cavity of the HW2 disk. From the morphology and location of this free-free continuum emission at centimeter and millimeter wavelengths (spectral index of 0.4-1.5), we propose that the disk is photoevaporating due to the UV radiation from the central star. All this indicates that the Cepheus A HW2 region harbors a cluster of massive stars. Disk accretion seems to be the most plausible way to form massive stars in moderate density/luminosity clusters. 
0704.03009	Gravitational waves from galaxy encounters	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:V. Quilis, A.C. González-García, D. Sáez, J. A. Font	 Abstract: We discuss the emission of gravitational radiation produced in encounters of dark matter galactic halos. To this aim we perform a number of numerical simulations of typical galaxy mergers, computing the associated gravitational radiation waveforms as well as the energy released in the processes. Our simulations yield dimensionless gravitational wave amplitudes of the order of $10^{-13}$ and gravitational wave frequencies of the order of $10^{-16}$ Hz, when the galaxies are located at a distance of 10 Mpc. These values are of the same order as those arising in the gravitational radiation originated by strong variations of the gravitational field in the early Universe, and therefore, such gravitational waves cannot be directly observed by ground-based detectors. We discuss the feasibility of an indirect detection by means of the B-mode polarization of the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) induced by such waves. Our results show that the gravitational waves from encounters of dark matter galactic halos leave much too small an imprint on the CMB polarization to be actually observed with ongoing and future missions. 
0704.03010	Ground-state magneto-optical resonances in Cesium vapour confined in an  extremely thin cell	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:C. Andreeva, A. Atvars, M. Auzinsh, K.Bluss, S. Cartaleva, L. Petrov, D. Slavov	 Abstract: Experimental and theoretical studies are presented related to the ground-state magneto-optical resonance prepared in Cesium vapour confined in an Extremely Thin Cell (ETC, with thickness equal to the wavelength of the irradiating light). It is shown that the utilization of the ETC allows one to examine the formation of a magneto-optical resonance on the individual hyperfine transitions, thus distinguishing processes resulting in dark (reduced absorption) or bright (enhanced absorption) resonance formation. We report on an experimental evidence of the bright magneto-optical resonance sign reversal in Cs atoms confined in the ETC. A theoretical model is proposed based on the optical Bloch equations that involves the elastic interaction processes of atoms in the ETC with its walls resulting in depolarization of the Cs excited state which is polarized by the exciting radiation. This depolarization leads to the sign reversal of the bright resonance. Using the proposed model, the magneto-optical resonance amplitude and width as a function of laser power are calculated and compared with the experimental ones. The numerical results are in good agreement with the experiment. 
0704.03011	Many-Body Physics with Ultracold Gases	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Immanuel Bloch, Jean Dalibard, Wilhelm Zwerger	 Abstract: This article reviews recent experimental and theoretical progress on many-body phenomena in dilute, ultracold gases. Its focus are effects beyond standard weak-coupling descriptions, like the Mott-Hubbard-transition in optical lattices, strongly interacting gases in one and two dimensions or lowest Landau level physics in quasi two-dimensional gases in fast rotation. Strong correlations in fermionic gases are discussed in optical lattices or near Feshbach resonances in the BCS-BEC crossover. 
0704.03012	MS 2053.7-0449: Confirmation of a bimodal mass distribution from strong  gravitational lensing	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T. Verdugo, J.A. de Diego, M. Limousin	 Abstract: We present the first strong lensing study of the mass distribution in the cluster MS 2053-04 based on HST archive data. This massive, X-ray luminous cluster has a redshift z=0.583, and it is composed of two structures that are gravitationally bound to each other. The cluster has one multiply imaged system constituted by a double gravitational arc. We have performed a parametric strong lensing mass reconstruction using NFW density profiles to model the cluster potential. We also included perturbations from 23 galaxies, modeled like elliptical singular isothermal sphere, that are approximately within 1'x1' around the cluster center. These galaxies were constrained in both the geometric and dynamical parameters with observational data. Our analysis predicts a third image which is slightly demagnified. We found a candidate for this counter-image near the expected position and with the same F702W-F814W colors as the gravitational arcs in the cluster. The results from the strong lensing model shows the complex structure in this cluster, the asymmetry and the elongation in the mass distribution, and are consistent with previous spectrophotometric results that indicate that the cluster has a bimodal mass distribution. Finally, the derived mass profile was used to estimate the mass within the arcs and for comparison with X-ray estimates. 
0704.03013	On the Universal Tachyon and Geometrical Tachyon	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:J. Kluson, Kamal L. Panigrahi	 Abstract: We study properties of non-BPS D(p+1)-brane in the background of k NS5-branes, with one transverse direction compactified on a circle, from the point of view of Dirac-Born-Infeld action. We present the analysis of two different embedding of non-BPS D(p+1)-brane in given background and study the classical solutions of given world-volume theory. We argue for the configuration of a non-BPS D(p+1)-brane which allows us to find solutions of the equations of motion that give unified descriptions of G and U-type branes. 
0704.03014	Adiabatic pumping through a quantum dot in the Kondo regime: Exact  results at the Toulouse limit	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Avraham Schiller, Alessandro Silva	 Abstract: Transport properties of ultrasmall quantum dots with a single unpaired electron are commonly modeled by the nonequilibrium Kondo model, describing the exchange interaction of a spin-1/2 local moment with two leads of noninteracting electrons. Remarkably, the model possesses an exact solution when tuned to a special manifold in its parameter space known as the Toulouse limit. We use the Toulouse limit to exactly calculate the adiabatically pumped spin current in the Kondo regime. In the absence of both potential scattering and a voltage bias, the instantaneous charge current is strictly zero for a generic Kondo model. However, a nonzero spin current can be pumped through the system in the presence of a finite magnetic field, provided the spin couples asymmetrically to the two leads. Tunneling through a Kondo impurity thus offers a natural mechanism for generating a pure spin current. We show, in particular, that one can devise pumping cycles along which the average spin pumped per cycle is closely equal to $\hbar$. By analogy with Brouwer's formula for noninteracting systems with two driven parameters, the pumped spin current is expressed as a geometrical property of a scattering matrix. However, the relevant %Alex: I replaced topological with geometrical in the sentence above scattering matrix that enters the formulation pertains to the Majorana fermions that appear at the Toulouse limit rather than the physical electrons that carry the current. These results are obtained by combining the nonequilibrium Keldysh Green function technique with a systematic gradient expansion, explicitly exposing the small parameter controlling the adiabatic limit. 
0704.03015	A surface force apparatus for nanorheology under large shear strain	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Lionel Bureau (INSP)	 Abstract: We describe a surface force apparatus designed to probe the rheology of a nanoconfined medium under large shear amplitudes (up to 500 $\mu$m). The instrument can be operated in closed-loop, controlling either the applied normal load or the thickness of the medium during shear experiments. Feedback control allows to greatly extend the range of confinement/shear strain attainable with the surface force apparatus. The performances of the instrument are illustrated using hexadecane as the confined medium. 
0704.03016	Pulse shapes from electron and photon induced events in segmented  high-purity germanium detectors	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:I. Abt, A. Caldwell, K. Kröninger, J. Liu, X. Liu, B. Majorovits	 Abstract: Experiments built to search for neutrinoless double beta-decay are limited in their sensitivity not only by the exposure but also by the amount of background encountered. Radioactive isotopes in the surrounding of the detectors which emit gamma-radiation are expected to be a significant source of background in the GERmanium Detector Array, GERDA. Methods to select electron induced events and discriminate against photon induced events inside a germanium detector are presented in this paper. The methods are based on the analysis of the time structure of the detector response. Data were taken with a segmented GERDA prototype detector. It is shown that the analysis of the time response of the detector can be used to distinguish multiply scattered photons from electrons. 
0704.03017	Andreev reflection and strongly enhanced magnetoresistance oscillations  in GaInAs/InP heterostructures with superconducting contacts	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:I. E. Batov, Th. Schapers, N. M. Chtchelkatchev, H. Hardtdegen, A. V. Ustinov	 Abstract: We study the magnetotransport in small hybrid junctions formed by high-mobility GaInAs/InP heterostructures coupled to superconducting (S) and normal metal (N) terminals. Highly transmissive superconducting contacts to a two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG) located in a GaInAs/InP heterostructure are realized by using a Au/NbN layer system. The magnetoresistance of the S/2DEG/N structures is studied as a function of dc bias current and temperature. At bias currents below a critical value, the resistance of the S/2DEG/N structures develops a strong oscillatory dependence on the magnetic field, with an amplitude of the oscillations considerably larger than that of the reference N/2DEG/N structures. The experimental results are qualitatively explained by taking Andreev reflection in high magnetic fields into account. 
0704.03018	On the Conditions to Extend Ricci Flow	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Bing Wang	 Abstract: Along a Ricci flow solution on a closed manifold, we show that if Ricci curvature is uniformly bounded from below, then a scalar curvature integral bound is enough to extend flow. Moreover, this integral bound condition is optimal in some sense. 
0704.03019	Arbitrary Rate Permutation Modulation for the Gaussian Channel	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Oliver Henkel	 Abstract: In this paper non-group permutation modulated sequences for the Gaussian channel are considered. Without the restriction to group codes rather than subsets of group codes, arbitrary rates are achievable. The code construction utilizes the known optimal group constellations to ensure at least the same performance but exploit the Gray code ordering structure of multiset permutations as a selection criterion at the decoder. The decoder achieves near maximum likelihood performance at low computational cost and low additional memory requirements at the receiver. 
0704.03020	Random walks and exclusion processes among random conductances on random  infinite clusters: homogenization and hydrodynamic limit	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:A. Faggionato	 Abstract: We consider a stationary and ergodic random field {\omega(b)} parameterized by the family of bonds b in Z^d, d>1. The random variable \omega(b) is thought of as the conductance of bond b and it ranges in a finite interval [0,c_0]. Assuming that the set of bonds with positive conductance has a unique infinite cluster C, we prove homogenization results for the random walk among random conductances on C. As a byproduct, applying the general criterion of \cite{F} leading to the hydrodynamic limit of exclusion processes with bond-dependent transition rates, for almost all realizations of the environment we prove the hydrodynamic limit of simple exclusion processes among random conductances on C. The hydrodynamic equation is given by a heat equation whose diffusion matrix does not depend on the environment. We do not require any ellipticity condition. As special case, C can be the infinite cluster of supercritical Bernoulli bond percolation. 
0704.03021	On the Critical Ionization Velocity Effect in Interstellar Space and  Possible Detection of Related Continuum Emission	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Gerrit L. Verschuur	 Abstract: Interstellar neutral hydrogen (HI) emission spectra manifest several families of linewidths whose numerical values (34, 13 & 6 km/s) appear to be related to the critical ionization velocities (CIVs) of the most abundant interstellar atomic species. Extended new analysis of HI emission profiles shows that the 34 km/s wide component, probably corresponding to the CIV for helium, is pervasive. The 34 km/s wide linewidth family is found in low-velocity (local) neutral hydrogen (HI) profiles as well as in the so-called high-velocity clouds. In addition, published studies of HI linewidths found in the Magellanic Stream, Very-High-Velocity Clouds, and Compact High-Velocity Clouds, all of which are believed to be intergalactic, have noted that typical values are of the same order. If the critical ionization velocity effect does play a role in interstellar space it may be expected to produce locally enhanced electron densities where rapidly moving neutral gas masses interact with surrounding plasma. Evidence is presented that suggests that this phenomenon is occurring in interstellar space. It manifests as a spatial association between peaks in HI structure offset with respect to peaks in high-frequency radio continuum data obtained with the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe. 
0704.03022	Order preserving transformations of the Hilbert grassmannian: complex  case	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Mark Pankov	 Abstract: Let $H$ be a separable complex Hilbert space. Denote by ${\mathcal G}_{\infty}(H)$ the Grassmannian consisting of closed linear subspaces with infinite dimension and codimension. This Grassmannian is partially ordered by the inclusion relation. We show that every continuous order preserving bijective transformation of ${\mathcal G}_{\infty}(H)$ is induced by an invertible bounded semi-linear operator. 
0704.03023	Fermions in the pseudoparticle approach	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:Marc Wagner	 Abstract: The pseudoparticle approach is a numerical technique to compute path integrals without discretizing spacetime. The basic idea is to integrate over those field configurations, which can be represented by a sum of a fixed number of localized building blocks (pseudoparticles). In a couple of previous papers we have successfully applied the pseudoparticle approach to pure SU(2) Yang-Mills theory. In this work we discuss how to incorporate fermionic fields in the pseudoparticle approach. To test our method, we compute the phase diagram of the 1+1-dimensional Gross-Neveu model in the large-N limit. 
0704.03024	Are extrasolar oceans common throughout the Galaxy?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:David Ehrenreich (IAP), Arnaud Cassan (ARI)	 Abstract: Light and cold extrasolar planets such as OGLE 2005-BLG-390Lb, a 5.5 Earth-mass planet detected via microlensing, could be frequent in the Galaxy according to some preliminary results from microlensing experiments. These planets can be frozen rocky- or ocean-planets, situated beyond the snow line and, therefore, beyond the habitable zone of their system. They can nonetheless host a layer of liquid water, heated by radiogenic energy, underneath an ice shell surface for billions of years, before freezing completely. These results suggest that oceans under ice, like those suspected to be present on icy moons in the Solar system, could be a common feature of cold low-mass extrasolar planets. 
0704.03025	Two-Staged Magnetoresistance Driven by Ising-like Spin Sublattice in  SrCo6O11	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:S. Ishiwata, I. Terasaki, F. Ishii, N. Nagaosa, H. Mukuda, Y. Kitaoka, T. Saito, M. Takano	 Abstract: A two-staged, uniaxial magnetoresistive effect has been discovered in SrCo6O11 having a layered hexagonal structure. Conduction electrons and localized Ising spins are in different sublattices but their interpenetration makes the conduction electrons sensitively pick up the stepwise field-dependence of magnetization. The stepwise field-dependence suggests two competitive interlayer interactions between ferromagnetic Ising-spin layers, i.e., a ferromagnetic nearest-layer interaction and an antiferromagnetic next-nearest-layer interaction. This oxide offers a unique opportunity to study nontrivial interplay between conduction electrons and Ising spins, the coupling of which can be finely controlled by a magnetic field of a few Tesla. 
0704.03026	The M33 Variable Star Population Revealed by Spitzer	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K. B. W. McQuinn, Charles E. Woodward, S. P. Willner, E. F. Polomski, R. D. Gehrz, Roberta M. Humphreys, Jacco Th. van Loon, M. L. N. Ashby, K. Eicher, G. G. Fazio	 Abstract: We analyze five epochs of Spitzer Space Telescope/Infrared Array Camera (IRAC) observations of the nearby spiral galaxy M33. Each epoch covered nearly a square degree at 3.6, 4.5, and 8.0 microns. The point source catalog from the full dataset contains 37,650 stars. The stars have luminosities characteristic of the asymptotic giant branch and can be separated into oxygen-rich and carbon-rich populations by their [3.6] - [4.5] colors. The [3.6] - [8.0] colors indicate that over 80% of the stars detected at 8.0 microns have dust shells. Photometric comparison of epochs using conservative criteria yields a catalog of 2,923 variable stars. These variables are most likely long-period variables amidst an evolved stellar population. At least one-third of the identified carbon stars are variable. 
0704.03027	Full control by locally induced relaxation	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Daniel Burgarth, Vittorio Giovannetti	 Abstract: We demonstrate a scheme for controlling a large quantum system by acting on a small subsystem only. The local control is mediated to the larger system by some fixed coupling Hamiltonian. The scheme allows to transfer arbitrary and unknown quantum states from a memory on the large system (``upload access'') as well as the inverse (``download access''). We study sufficient conditions of the coupling Hamiltonian and give lower bounds on the fidelities for downloading and uploading. 
0704.03028	Generic dynamics of 4-dimensional C2 Hamiltonian systems	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Mario Bessa, Joao Lopes Dias	 Abstract: We study the dynamical behaviour of Hamiltonian flows defined on 4-dimensional compact symplectic manifolds. We find the existence of a C2-residual set of Hamiltonians for which every regular energy surface is either Anosov or it is in the closure of energy surfaces with zero Lyapunov exponents a.e. This is in the spirit of the Bochi-Mane dichotomy for area-preserving diffeomorphisms on compact surfaces and its continuous-time version for 3-dimensional volume-preserving flows. 
0704.03029	Isospin properties of the X state near the D {\bar D}^{*} threshold	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:M.B. Voloshin	 Abstract: The $D {\bar D}^*$ scattering amplitude and the production of the final states $\pi^+ \pi^- J/\psi$ and $\pi^+ \pi^- \pi^0 J/\psi$ near the $D^0 {\bar D}^{*0}$ threshold are discussed following the recent suggestion that the observed peaks X(3872) and X(3875) in the decays $B \to X K$ are due to a virtual state $X$ in the $D^0 {\bar D}^{*0}$ channel. The strong interaction is treated using the small interaction radius approximation. It is shown that the mass difference between the charged and neutral $D^{(*)}$ mesons results in a distinctive behavior of the relevant isotopic amplitudes. In particular, the shape of the peak in the $\pi^+ \pi^- J/\psi$ channel should be significantly narrower than in the $\pi^+ \pi^- \pi^0 J/\psi$ channel, which property can be used for an experimental test of the virtual state hypothesis. 
0704.03030	Optical Multicolor Photometry of Spectrophotometric Standard Stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Arlo U. Landolt, Alan K. Uomoto	 Abstract: Photoelectric data on the Johnson-Kron-Cousins UBVRI broadband photometric system are provided for a set of stars which have been used as spectrophotometric standard stars at the Hubble Space Telescope. 
0704.03031	The Cornell Caltech Atacama Telescope	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Simon J. E. Radford, Riccardo Giovanelli, Thomas A. Sebring, Jonas Zmuidzinas	 Abstract: Cornell University, the California Institute for Technology, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory are jointly studying the construction of a 25 m diameter telescope for submillimeter astronomy on a high mountain in northern Chile. This Cornell Caltech Atacama Telescope (CCAT) will combine high sensitivity, a wide field of view, and a broad wavelength range to provide an unprecedented capability for deep, large area, multi-color submillimeter surveys to complement narrow field, high resolution studies with ALMA. CCAT observations will address fundamental themes in contemporary astronomy, notably the formation and evolution of galaxies, the nature of the dark matter and dark energy that comprise most of the content of the universe, the formation of stars and planets, the conditions in circumstellar disks, and the conditions during the early history of the Solar system. The candidate CCAT site, at 5600 m in northern Chile, enjoys superb observing conditions. To accommodate large format bolometer cameras, CCAT is designed with a 20 arcmin field of view. CCAT will incorporate closed loop active control of its segmented primary mirror to maintain a half wavefront error of 10 mum rms or less. Instrumentation under consideration includes both short (650 mum-200 mum) and long (2 mm-750 mum) wavelength bolometer cameras, direct detection spectrometers, and heterodyne receiver arrays. The University of Colorado, a Canadian university consortium, and the UK Astronomy Technology Centre on behalf of the UK community are pursuing participation in the CCAT consortium. When complete early in the next decade, CCAT will be the largest and most sensitive facility of its class as well as the highest altitude astronomical facility on Earth. 
0704.03032	Algebraic Bethe ansatz for the elliptic quantum group  $E_{τ,η}(A_2^{(2)})$	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Nenad Manojlovic, Zoltan Nagy	 Abstract: We implement the Bethe anstaz method for the elliptic quantum group $E_{\tau,\eta}(A_2^{(2)})$. The Bethe creation operators are constructed as polynomials of the Lax matrix elements expressed through a recurrence relation. We also give the eigenvalues of the family of commuting transfer matrices defined in the tensor product of fundamental representations. 
0704.03033	Charge ordering in θ-(BEDT-TTF)2RbZn(SCN)4: Cooperative effects of  electron correlations and lattice distortions	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Satoshi Miyashita, Kenji Yonemitsu	 Abstract: Combined effects of electron correlations and lattice distortions are investigated on the charge ordering in \theta-(BEDT-TTF)2RbZn(SCN)4 theoretically in a two-dimensional 3/4-filled extended Hubbard model with electron-lattice couplings. It is known that this material undergoes a phase transition from a high-symmetry metallic state to a low-symmetry insulating state with a horizontal-stripe charge order (CO) by lowering temperature. By means of the exact-diagonalization method, we show that electron-phonon interactions are crucial to stabilize the horizontal-stripe CO and to realize the low-symmetry crystal structure. 
0704.03034	UBVRI Photometric Standard Stars Around the Sky at -50 Degrees  Declination	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Arlo U. Landolt	 Abstract: UBVRI photoelectric observations have been made of 109 stars around the sky, centered more or less at -50 degrees declination. The majority of the stars fall in the magnitude range 10.4 < V < 15.5 and in the color index range -0.33 < (B - V) < +1.66. These new broadband photometric standard stars average 16.4 measurements each from data taken on 116 different nights over a period of 4 yr. Similar data are tabulated for 19 stars of interest that were not observed often enough to make them well-defined standard stars. 
0704.03035	Achievable Rates for Two-Way Wire-Tap Channels	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Ender Tekin, Aylin Yener	 Abstract: We consider two-way wire-tap channels, where two users are communicating with each other in the presence of an eavesdropper, who has access to the communications through a multiple-access channel. We find achievable rates for two different scenarios, the Gaussian two-way wire-tap channel, (GTW-WT), and the binary additive two-way wire-tap channel, (BATW-WT). It is shown that the two-way channels inherently provide a unique advantage for wire-tapped scenarios, as the users know their own transmitted signals and in effect help encrypt the other user's messages, similar to a one-time pad. We compare the achievable rates to that of the Gaussian multiple-access wire-tap channel (GMAC-WT) to illustrate this advantage. 
0704.03036	Involutory quasi-Hopf algebras	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:D. Bulacu, S. Caenepeel, B. Torrecillas	 Abstract: We introduce and investigate the basic properties of an involutory (dual) quasi-Hopf algebra. We also study the representations of an involutory quasi-Hopf algebra and prove that an involutory dual quasi-Hopf algebra with non-zero integral is cosemisimple. 
0704.03037	Discreteness effects in a reacting system of particles with finite  interaction radius	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Stefano Berti, Cristobal Lopez, Davide Vergni, Angelo Vulpiani	 Abstract: An autocatalytic reacting system with particles interacting at a finite distance is studied. We investigate the effects of the discrete-particle character of the model on properties like reaction rate, quenching phenomenon and front propagation, focusing on differences with respect to the continuous case. We introduce a renormalized reaction rate depending both on the interaction radius and the particle density, and we relate it to macroscopic observables (e.g., front speed and front thickness) of the system. 
0704.03038	Spectral Analysis of GRBs Measured by RHESSI	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C. Wigger, W. Hajdas, A. Zehnder, K. Hurley, E. Bellm, S. Boggs, M. Bandstra, D.M. Smith	 Abstract: The Ge spectrometer of the RHESSI satellite is sensitive to Gamma Ray Bursts (GRBs) from about 40 keV up to 17 MeV, thus ideally complementing the Swift/BAT instrument whose sensitivity decreases above 150 keV. We present preliminary results of spectral fits of RHESSI GRB data. After describing our method, the RHESSI results are discussed and compared with Swift and Konus. 
0704.03039	Yield design for porous media subjected to unconfined flow: construction  of approximate pressure fields	Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)	Authors:Alain Corfdir (ENPC-Cermes)	 Abstract: We consider the stability of a porous medium submitted to a steady-state flow with free-boundary. Assuming some hypotheses, it is possible to implement the kinematic method by using an approximate pressure field bounding the true pressure field from below. We are interested in finding such approximate pressure fields and in proving that they bound the true pressure field from below without knowing the true pressure field. We use fields which are solutions of a problem with relaxed conditions with regard to the real problem. Under a uniqueness condition of the solution of a weak formulation of the problem, such fields are lower bounds for the true pressure field. Finally, we give the example of a vertical dam. 
0704.03040	Exact N=4 correlators of AdS(3)/CFT(2)	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Ari Pakman, Amit Sever	 Abstract: We extend to chiral N=4 operators the holographic agreement recently found between correlators of the symmetric orbifold of M^4 at large N and type IIB strings propagating in AdS(3) x S^3 x M^4, where M^4=T^4 or K3. We also present expressions for some bulk correlators not yet computed in the boundary. 
0704.03041	Magnetization and specific heat of TbFe3(BO3)4: Experiment and crystal  field calculations	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:E.A. Popova, D.V. Volkov, A.N. Vasiliev, A.A. Demidov, N.P. Kolmakova, I.A. Gudim, L.N. Bezmaternykh, N. Tristan, Yu. Skourski, B. Büchner, C. Hess, R. Klingeler	 Abstract: We have studied the thermodynamic properties of single-crystalline TbFe3(BO3)4. Magnetization measurements have been carried out as a function of magnetic field (up to 50 T) and temperature up to 350K with the magnetic field both parallel and perpendicular to the trigonal c-axis of the crystal. The specific heat has been measured in the temperature range 2-300K with a magnetic field up to 9 T applied parallel to the c-axis. The data indicate a structural phase transition at 192 K and antiferromagnetic spin ordering at 40 K. A Schottky anomaly is present in the specific heat data around 20 K, arising due to two low-lying energy levels of the Tb3+ ions being split by f-d coupling. Below TN magnetic fields parallel to the c-axis drive a spin-flop phase transition, which is associated with a large magnetization jump. The highly anisotropic character of the magnetic susceptibility is ascribed mainly to the Ising-like behavior of the Tb3+ ions in the trigonal crystal field. We describe our results in the framework of an unified approach which is based on mean-field approximation and crystal-field calculations. 
0704.03042	Measurement on the thermal neutron capture cross section of w-180	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:W.G. Kang, Y.D. Kim, J.I. Lee, I.S. Hahn, A.R. Kim, H.J. Kim	 Abstract: We have measured the thermal neutron capture cross section for w-180 nucleus. There is only one previous data on this cross section with a value of 30 $^{+300%}_{-100%}$ barn. To consider w-181 as a low energy neutrino source, the thermal neutron capture cross section should be measured more precisely to estimate the production rate of w-181 inside a nuclear reactor. We measured the cross section of w-180 with a natural tungsten foil and obtained a new value of 21.9 $\pm$ 2.5 barn 
0704.03043	CMB and LSS constraints on a single-field model of inflation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:F.C. Carvalho (on), J.S. Alcaniz (on), J.A.S. Lima (USP), R. Silva (UERN)	 Abstract: A new inflationary scenario whose exponential potential $V(\Phi)$ has a quadratic dependence on the field $\Phi$ in addition to the standard linear term is confronted with the tree-year observations of the Wilkinson-Microwave Anisotropy Probe and the Sloan Digital Sky Survey data. The number of e-folds ($N$), the ratio of tensor-to-scalar perturbations ($r$), the spectral scalar index of the primordial power spectrum ($n_s$) and its running ($dn_s/d\ln k$) depend on the dimensionless parameter $\alpha$ multiplying the quadratic term in the potential. In the limit $\alpha \to 0$ all the results of the standard exponential potential are fully recovered. For values of $\alpha \neq 0$, we find that the model predictions are in good agreement with the current observations of the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) anisotropies and Large-Scale Structure (LSS) in the Universe. 
0704.03044	Signatures of axion-like particles in the spectra of TeV gamma-ray  sources	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Alessandro Mirizzi, Georg G. Raffelt, Pasquale D. Serpico	 Abstract: One interpretation of the unexplained signature observed in the PVLAS experiment invokes a new axion-like particle (ALP) with a two-photon vertex, allowing for photon-ALP oscillations in the presence of magnetic fields. In the range of masses and couplings suggested by PVLAS, the same effect would lead to a peculiar dimming of high-energy photon sources. For typical parameters of the turbulent magnetic field in the galaxy, the effect sets in at E_gamma >~ 10 TeV, providing an ALP signature in the spectra of TeV gamma sources that can be probed with Cherenkov telescopes. A dedicated search will be strongly motivated if the ongoing photon regeneration experiments confirm the PVLAS particle interpretation. 
0704.03045	A possible explanation why the Theta+ is seen in some experiments and  not in others	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Ya. Azimov (PNPI), K. Goeke (Ruhr-Universitaet), I. Strakovsky (GWU)	 Abstract: To understand the whole set of positive and null data on the Theta+(1530)-production, we suggest the hypothesis that multiquark hadrons are mainly generated from many-quark states, which emerge either as short-term hadron fluctuations, or as hadron remnants in hard processes. This approach allows us to describe both non-observation of the Theta+ in current null experiments and peculiar features of its production in positive experiments. Further, we are able to propose new experiments that might be decisive for the problem of the Theta+ existence. Distributions of the Theta+ in such experiments can give important information both on higher Fock components of conventional hadrons and about structure and hadronization properties of hadron remnants produced in hard processes. We also explain that description of multiquark hadrons may require a modified form of the constituent quark model, with quark masses and couplings being intermediate between their values for the familiar constituent quarks and the current ones. 
0704.03046	A novel quasi-exactly solvable spin chain with nearest-neighbors  interactions	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:A. Enciso, F. Finkel, A. Gonzalez-Lopez, M.A. Rodriguez	 Abstract: In this paper we study a novel spin chain with nearest-neighbors interactions depending on the sites coordinates, which in some sense is intermediate between the Heisenberg chain and the spin chains of Haldane-Shastry type. We show that when the number of spins is sufficiently large both the density of sites and the strength of the interaction between consecutive spins follow the Gaussian law. We develop an extension of the standard freezing trick argument that enables us to exactly compute a certain number of eigenvalues and their corresponding eigenfunctions. The eigenvalues thus computed are all integers, and in fact our numerical studies evidence that these are the only integer eigenvalues of the chain under consideration. This fact suggests that this chain can be regarded as a finite-dimensional analog of the class of quasi-exactly solvable Schroedinger operators, which has been extensively studied in the last two decades. We have applied the method of moments to study some statistical properties of the chain's spectrum, showing in particular that the density of eigenvalues follows a Wigner-like law. Finally, we emphasize that, unlike the original freezing trick, the extension thereof developed in this paper can be applied to spin chains whose associated dynamical spin model is only quasi-exactly solvable. 
0704.03047	Observation of atom pairs in spontaneous four wave mixing of two  colliding Bose-Einstein Condensates	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:A. Perrin (LCFIO), H. Chang (LCFIO), V. Krachmalnicoff (LCFIO), M. Schellekens (LCFIO), D. Boiron (LCFIO), A. Aspect (LCFIO), C. I. Westbrook (LCFIO)	 Abstract: We study atom scattering from two colliding Bose-Einstein condensates using a position sensitive, time resolved, single atom detector. In analogy to quantum optics, the process can also be thought of as spontaneous, degenerate four wave mixing of de Broglie waves. We find a clear correlation between atoms with opposite momenta, demonstrating pair production in the scattering process. We also observe a Hanbury Brown and Twiss correlation for collinear momenta, which permits an independent measurement of the size of the pair production source and thus the size of the spatial mode. The back to back pairs occupy very nearly two oppositely directed spatial modes, a promising feature for future quantum optics experiments. 
0704.03048	Non-thermal leptogenesis with strongly hierarchical right handed  neutrinos	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:V. Nefer Senoguz	 Abstract: Assuming the Dirac-type neutrino masses m_D are related to quark or charged lepton masses, neutrino oscillation data indicate that right handed neutrino masses are in general strongly hierarchical. In particular, if m_D is similar to the up-type quark masses, the mass of the lightest right handed neutrino M_1<~10^6 GeV. We show that non-thermal leptogenesis by inflaton decay can yield sufficient baryon asymmetry despite this constraint, and discuss how the asymmetry is correlated with the low energy neutrino masses and CP-violating phases. 
0704.03049	Extracting falsifiable predictions from sloppy models	Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)	Authors:Ryan N. Gutenkunst, Fergal P. Casey, Joshua J. Waterfall, Christopher R. Myers, James P. Sethna	 Abstract: Successful predictions are among the most compelling validations of any model. Extracting falsifiable predictions from nonlinear multiparameter models is complicated by the fact that such models are commonly sloppy, possessing sensitivities to different parameter combinations that range over many decades. Here we discuss how sloppiness affects the sorts of data that best constrain model predictions, makes linear uncertainty approximations dangerous, and introduces computational difficulties in Monte-Carlo uncertainty analysis. We also present a useful test problem and suggest refinements to the standards by which models are communicated. 
0704.03050	Optical BVI Imaging and HI Synthesis Observations of the Dwarf Irregular  Galaxy ESO 364-G 029	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M.B.N. Kouwenhoven (1,2,3), M. Bureau (4), S. Kim (5), P.T. de Zeeuw (2) ((1) University of Sheffield (2) Leiden University (3) University of Amsterdam (4) University of Oxford (5) Sejong University)	 Abstract: As part of an effort to enlarge the number of well-studied Magellanic-type galaxies, we obtained broadband optical imaging and neutral hydrogen radio synthesis observations of the dwarf irregular galaxy ESO 364-G 029. The optical morphology characteristically shows a bar-like main body with a one-sided spiral arm, an approximately exponential light distribution, and offset photometric and kinematic centers. The HI distribution is mildly asymmetric and, although slightly offset from the photometric center, roughly follows the optical brightness distribution, extending to over 1.2 Holmberg radii (where mu_B = 26.5 mag/arcsec^2). In particular, the highest HI column densities closely follow the bar, one-arm spiral, and a third optical extension. The rotation is solid-body in the inner parts but flattens outside of the optical extent. The total HI flux F_HI = 23.1 pm 1.2 Jy km/s, yielding a total HI mass M_HI= (6.4 pm 1.7) x 10^8 Msun (for a distance D = 10.8 pm 1.4 Mpc) and a total HI mass-to-blue-luminosity ratio M_HI/L_B = (0.96 pm 0.14) Msun / Lsun,B (distance independent). The HI data suggest a very complex small-scale HI structure, with evidence of large shells and/or holes, but deeper observations are required for a detailed study. Follow-up observations are also desirable for a proper comparison with the Large Magellanic Cloud, where despite an optical morphology very similar to ESO 364-G 029 the HI bears little resemblance to the optical. 
0704.03051	A new numerical algorithm for Low Mach number supercritical fluids	Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)	Authors:Jalil Ouazzani (ICMCB), Yves Garrabos (ICMCB)	 Abstract: A new algorithm has been developed to compute low Mach Numbers supercritical fluid flows. The algorithm is applied using a finite volume method based on the SIMPLER algorithm. Its main advantages are to decrease significantly the CPU time, and the possibility for supercritical fluid flow modelisation to use other discretisation methods (such as spectral methods and/or finite differences) and other algorithms such as PISO or projection. It makes it possible to solve 3D problems within reasonable CPU time even when considering complex equations of state. The algorithm is given after first a brief description of the previously existing algorithm to solve for supercritical fluids. The side and bottom heated near critical carbon dioxide filled cavity problems are respectively solved and compared to the previously obtained results. 
0704.03052	Representation Of Level Paths Of An Analytic Function	General Mathematics (math.GM)	Authors:Kerry M. Soileau	 Abstract: We find an arc-parameterization of the contour on which an given analytic function has constant modulus. This contour is seen to satisfy a differential equation which we explicitly give. 
0704.03053	The remarkable X-ray spectrum of the Broad-Line Radio Galaxy 3C 445	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. M. Sambruna (1), J. N. Reeves (1, 2), V. Braito (1,3) ((1) NASA GSFC, (2) Astrophysics Group, School of Physical and Geographical Sciences, Keele University, (3) JHU)	 Abstract: We present the results of the analysis of an archival 15 ks XMM-Newton observation of the nearby (z=0.057) radio-loud source 3C445, optically classified as a Broad-Line Radio Galaxy. While the RGS data are of insufficient quality to allow a meaningful analysis, the EPIC data show a remarkable X-ray spectrum. The 2-10 keV continuum is described by a heavily absorbed (Nh~ 1e22 - 1e23 cm-2) power law with photon index Gamma ~1.4, and strong (R~2) cold reflection. A narrow, unresolved Fe Kalpha emission line is detected, confirming previous findings, with EW 120eV. A soft excess is present below 2 keV over the extrapolation of the hard X-ray power law, which we model with a power law with the same photon index as the hard power law, absorbed by a column density Nh=6e20 cm-2 in excess to Galactic. A host of emission lines are present below 2 keV, confirming previous indications from ASCA, due to H- and He-like O, Mg, and Si. We attribute the origin of the lines to a photoionized gas, with properties very similar to radio-quiet obscured AGN. Two different ionized media, or a single stratified medium, are required to fit the soft X-ray data satisfactorily. The similarity of the X-ray spectrum of 3C445 to Seyferts underscores that the central engines of radio-loud and radio-quiet AGN similarly host both cold and warm gas. 
0704.03054	On bounds and algorithms for frequency synchronization for collaborative  communication systems	Applications (stat.AP)	Authors:Peter A. Parker, Patrick Mitran, Daniel W. Bliss, Vahid Tarokh	 Abstract: Cooperative diversity systems are wireless communication systems designed to exploit cooperation among users to mitigate the effects of multipath fading. In fairly general conditions, it has been shown that these systems can achieve the diversity order of an equivalent MISO channel and, if the node geometry permits, virtually the same outage probability can be achieved as that of the equivalent MISO channel for a wide range of applicable SNR. However, much of the prior analysis has been performed under the assumption of perfect timing and frequency offset synchronization. In this paper, we derive the estimation bounds and associated maximum likelihood estimators for frequency offset estimation in a cooperative communication system. We show the benefit of adaptively tuning the frequency of the relay node in order to reduce estimation error at the destination. We also derive an efficient estimation algorithm, based on the correlation sequence of the data, which has mean squared error close to the Cramer-Rao Bound. 
0704.03055	Disclinations, dislocations and continuous defects: a reappraisal	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Maurice Kleman, Jacques Friedel	 Abstract: Disclinations, first observed in mesomorphic phases, are relevant to a number of ill-ordered condensed matter media, with continuous symmetries or frustrated order. They also appear in polycrystals at the edges of grain boundaries. They are of limited interest in solid single crystals, where, owing to their large elastic stresses, they mostly appear in close pairs of opposite signs. The relaxation mechanisms associated with a disclination in its creation, motion, change of shape, involve an interplay with continuous or quantized dislocations and/or continuous disclinations. These are attached to the disclinations or are akin to Nye's dislocation densities, well suited here. The notion of 'extended Volterra process' takes these relaxation processes into account and covers different situations where this interplay takes place. These concepts are illustrated by applications in amorphous solids, mesomorphic phases and frustrated media in their curved habit space. The powerful topological theory of line defects only considers defects stable against relaxation processes compatible with the structure considered. It can be seen as a simplified case of the approach considered here, well suited for media of high plasticity or/and complex structures. Topological stability cannot guarantee energetic stability and sometimes cannot distinguish finer details of structure of defects. 
0704.03056	Effective spin systems in coupled micro-cavities	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Michael J. Hartmann, Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Martin B. Plenio	 Abstract: We show that atoms trapped in micro-cavities that interact via exchange of virtual photons can model an anisotropic Heisenberg spin-1/2 chain in an external magnetic field. All parameters of the effective Hamiltonian can individually be tuned via external lasers. Since the occupation of excited atomic levels and photonic states are strongly suppressed, the effective model is robust against decoherence mechanisms, has a long lifetime and its implementation is feasible with current experimental technology. The model provides a feasible way to create cluster states in these devices. 
0704.03057	Explosive instability due to 4-wave mixing	Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)	Authors:Benjamin R. Safdi, Harvey Segur	 Abstract: It is known that an explosive instability can occur when nonlinear waves propagate in certain media that admit 3-wave mixing. The purpose of this paper is to show that explosive instabilities can occur even in media that admit no 3-wave mixing. Instead, the instability is caused by 4-wave mixing: four resonantly interacting wavetrains gain energy from a background, and all blow up in a finite time. Unlike singularities associated with self-focussing, these singularities can occur with no spatial structure - the waves blow up everywhere in space, simultaneously. 
0704.03058	Some integer sequences based on derangements	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Milan Janjić	 Abstract: Sequences whose terms are equal to the number of functions with specified properties are considered. Properties are based on the notion of derangements in a more general sense. Several sequences which generalize the standard notion of derangements are thus obtained. These sequences generate a number of integer sequences from the well-known Sloane's encyclopedia. 
0704.03059	Finding Solar System Analogs With SIM and HIPPARCOS: A White Paper for  the ExoPlanet Task Force	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Rob P. Olling	 Abstract: The astrometric signature imposed by a planet on its primary increases substantially towards longer periods (proportinal to P^2/3), so that long-period planets can be more easily detected, in principle. For example, a one Solar-mass (M_Sun) star would be pulled by roughly 1 mas by a one Jupiter-mass (M_J) planet with a period of one-hundred years at a distance of 20 pc. Such position accuracies can now be obtained with both ground-based and space-based telescopes. The difficulty was that it often takes many decades before a detectable position shift will occur. However, by the time the next generation of astrometric missions such as SIM will be taking data, several decades will have past since the first astrometric mission, HIPPARCOS. Here we propose to use a new astrometric method that employs a future, highly accurate SIM Quick-Look survey and HIPPARCOS data taken twenty years prior. Using position errors for SIM of 4 muas, this method enables the detection and characterization of Solar-system analogs (SOSAs) with periods up to 240 (500) years for 1 (10) M_J companions. Because many tens of thousands nearby stars can be surveyed this way for a modest expenditure of SIM time and SOSAs may be quite abundant, we expect to find many hundreds of extra-solar planets with long-period orbits. Such a data set would nicely complement the short-period systems found by the radial-velocity method. Brown dwarfs and low-mass stellar companions can be found and characterized if their periods are shorter than about 500 years. This data set will provide invaluable constraints on models of planet formation, as well as a database for systems where the location of the giant planets allow for the formation of low-mass planets in the habitable zone. [Abridged] 
0704.03060	Open quantum dynamics via environmental monitoring	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Klaus Hornberger	 Abstract: A general method is discussed to obtain Markovian master equations which describe the interaction with the environment in a microscopic and non-perturbative fashion. It is based on combining time-dependent scattering theory with the concept of continuous quantum measurements. The applications to the case of a Brownian point particle and to the case of a complex molecule, both in the presence of a gaseous environment, are outlined. 
0704.03061	Bruhat order for two subspaces and a flag	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Evgeny Smirnov	 Abstract: The classical Ehresmann-Bruhat order describes the possible degenerations of a pair of flags in a finite-dimensional vector space V; or, equivalently, the closure of an orbit of the group GL(V) acting on the direct product of two full flag varieties. We obtain a similar result for triples consisting of two subspaces and a partial flag in V; this is equivalent to describing the closure of a GL(V)-orbit in the product of two Grassmannians and one flag variety. We give a rank criterion to check whether such a triple can be degenerated to another one, and we classify the minimal degenerations. Our methods involve only elementary linear algebra and combinatorics of graphs (originating in Auslander-Reiten quivers). 
0704.03062	INTEGRAL observations of HER X-1	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D. Klochkov, R. Staubert, S. Tsygankov, A. Lutovinov, K. P. Postnov, N. I. Shakura, S. A. Potanin, C. Ferrigno, I. Kreykenbohm, J.Wilms	 Abstract: First results of observations of the low mass X-ray binary Her X-1/HZ Her performed by the INTEGRAL satellite in July-August 2005 are presented. A significant part of one 35 day main-on state was covered. The cyclotron line in the X-ray spectrum is well observed and its position and shape, as well as its variability with time and phase of the 1.24 s pulsation are explored. X-ray pulse profiles for different energy bands are studied throughout the observation. The pulse period is found to vary on short time scales revealing a dynamical spin-up/spin-down behavior. Results of simultaneous optical observations of HZ Her are also discussed. 
0704.03063	Search for Radiative Decays of Upsilon(1S) into eta and eta'	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:S. B. Athar, et al, CLEO Collaboration	 Abstract: We report on a search for the radiative decay of Upsilon(1S) to the pseudoscalar mesons eta and etaprime in 21.2 +/- 0.2 times 10^6 Upsilon(1S) decays collected with the CLEO III detector at the Cornell Electron Storage Ring (CESR). The eta meson was reconstructed in the three modes eta to gamma-gamma, eta to pi+pi-pi0 and eta to 3pi0. The etaprime meson was reconstructed in the mode etaprime to pi+ pi- eta with eta decaying through any of the above three modes, and also etaprime to gamma rho, where rho decays to pi^+ pi^-. Five out of the seven sub-modes are found to be virtually background-free. In four of them we find no signal candidates and in one Upsilon(1S) to gamma-etaprime, etaprime to pi+ pi- eta, eta to pi+pi-pi0 there are two good signal candidates, which is insufficient evidence to claim a signal. The other two sub-modes eta to gamma-gamma and etaprime to gamma rho are background limited, and show no excess of events in their signal regions. We combine the results from different channels and obtain upper limits at the 90% C.L. which are B(Upsilon(1S) to gamma eta) < 1.0 times 10^-6 and B(Upsilon(1S) to gamma etaprime) < 1.9 times 10^-6. Our limits are an order of magnitude tighter than the previous ones and below the predictions made by some theoretical models. 
0704.03064	Diffuse cosmic gamma-rays at 1-20 MeV: A trace of the dark matter?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Kyle Lawson, Ariel R.Zhitnitsky	 Abstract: Several independent observations of the galactic core suggest hitherto unexplained sources of energy. The most well known case is the 511 keV line which has proven very difficult to explain with conventional astrophysical positron sources. A similar, but less well known mystery is the excess of gamma-ray photons detected by COMPTEL across a broad energy range 1-20 MeV. Such photons are found to be very difficult to produce via known astrophysical sources. We show in this work that dark matter in the form of dense antimatter droplets provides a natural explanations for the observed flux of gamma-rays in the 1-20 MeV range. We argue thatsuch photons must always accompany the 511 keV line as they produced by the same mechanism within our framework. We calculate the spectrum and intensity of the 1-20 MeV gamma-rays, and find it to be consistent with the COMPTEL data. 
0704.03065	XMM-Newton view of galaxy pairs: activation of quiescent black holes?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:E. Jimenez-Bailon, N. Loiseau, M. Guainazzi, G. Matt, D. Rosa-Gonzalez, E. Piconcelli, M. Santos-Lleo	 Abstract: We report on XMM-Newton observations of three nearby galaxy pairs, AM0707-273, AM1211-465, and AM2040-674. All six galaxies were previously classified as HII galaxies based on optical and IR spectroscopic analysis. All galaxies were detected with XMM-Newton and each member was isolated and analyzed independently. The X-ray spectra reveal strong evidence of AGN activity in the NE member of AM1211-465 pair. We measured a luminosity of 1.94(+0.11/-0.15)x10^42 erg/s in the 2-10 keV band and the presence of a neutral FeK_alpha line with a confidence level of 98.8%. The high nH value, 2.2+/-0.2x10^22 cm^-2, would explain the misclassification of the source. Marginal evidence of AGN nature was found in the X-ray spectra of AM1211-465SW and AM0707-273E. The X-ray emission of the three remaining galaxies can be explained by starburst activity. 
0704.03066	Complex impedance measurements of calorimeters and bolometers:  correction for stray impedances	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Mark. A. Lindeman, Kathleen A. Barger, Donald E. Brandl, S. Gwynne Crowder, Lindsay Rocks, Dan McCammon	 Abstract: Impedance measurements provide a useful probe of the physics of bolometers and calorimeters. We describe a method for measuring the complex impedance of these devices. In previous work, stray impedances and readout electronics of the measurement apparatus have resulted in artifacts in the impedance data. The new technique allows experimenters to find an independent Thevenin or Norton equivalent circuit for each frequency. This method allows experimenters to easily isolate the device impedance from the effects of parasitic impedances and frequency dependent gains in amplifiers. 
0704.03067	Kazhdan--Lusztig polynomials for maximally-clustered hexagon-avoiding  permutations	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Brant C. Jones	 Abstract: We provide a non-recursive description for the bounded admissible sets of masks used by Deodhar's algorithm to calculate the Kazhdan--Lusztig polynomials $P_{x,w}(q)$ of type $A$, in the case when $w$ is hexagon avoiding and maximally clustered. This yields a combinatorial description of the Kazhdan--Lusztig basis elements of the Hecke algebra associated to such permutations $w$. The maximally-clustered hexagon-avoiding elements are characterized by avoiding the seven classical permutation patterns $\{3421, 4312, 4321, 46718235, 46781235, 56718234, 56781234\}$. We also briefly discuss the application of heaps to permutation pattern characterization. 
0704.03068	Ages for illustrative field stars using gyrochronology: viability,  limitations and errors	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Sydney A. Barnes	 Abstract: We here develop an improved way of using a rotating star as a clock, set it using the Sun, and demonstrate that it keeps time well. This technique, called gyrochronology, permits the derivation of ages for solar- and late-type main sequence stars using only their rotation periods and colors. The technique is clarified and developed here, and used to derive ages for illustrative groups of nearby, late-type field stars with measured rotation periods. We first demonstrate the reality of the interface sequence, the unifying feature of the rotational observations of cluster and field stars that makes the technique possible, and extends it beyond the proposal of Skumanich by specifying the mass dependence of rotation for these stars. We delineate which stars it cannot currently be used on. We then calibrate the age dependence using the Sun. The errors are propagated to understand their dependence on color and period. Representative age errors associated with the technique are estimated at ~15% (plus possible systematic errors) for late-F, G, K, & early-M stars. Ages derived via gyrochronology for the Mt. Wilson stars are shown to be in good agreement with chromospheric ages for all but the bluest stars, and probably superior. Gyro ages are then calculated for each of the active main sequence field stars studied by Strassmeier and collaborators where other ages are not available. These are shown to be mostly younger than 1Gyr, with a median age of 365Myr. The sample of single, late-type main sequence field stars assembled by Pizzolato and collaborators is then assessed, and shown to have gyro ages ranging from under 100Myr to several Gyr, and a median age of 1.2Gyr. Finally, we demonstrate that the individual components of the three wide binaries XiBooAB, 61CygAB, & AlphaCenAB yield substantially the same gyro ages. 
0704.03069	GRB 050826: A Subluminous Event at z = 0.296 Finds its Place in the  Luminosity Distribution of Gamma-Ray Burst Afterglows	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:N. Mirabal, J. P. Halpern, P. T. O'Brien	 Abstract: We present the optical identification and spectroscopy of the host galaxy of GRB 050826 at a redshift z = 0.296 +/- 0.001. Image subtraction among observations obtained on three consecutive nights, reveals a fading object 5 hours after the burst, confirming its identification as the optical afterglow of this event. Deep imaging shows that the optical afterglow is offset by 0.4 arcseconds (~1.76 kpc) from the center of its irregular host galaxy, which is typical for long-duration gamma-ray bursts. Combining these results with X-ray measurements acquired by the Swift XRT instrument, we find that GRB 050826 falls entirely within the subluminous, subenergetic group of long gamma-ray bursts at low redshift (z < 0.3). The results are discussed in the context of models that possibly account for this trend, including the nature of the central engine, the evolution of progenitor properties as a function of redshift, and incompleteness in current gamma-ray burst samples. 
0704.03070	On the Uniqueness of Quantum Equilibrium in Bohmian Mechanics	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:S. Goldstein, W. Struyve	 Abstract: In Bohmian mechanics the distribution $|\psi|^2$ is regarded as the equilibrium distribution. We consider its uniqueness, finding that it is the unique equivariant distribution that is also a local functional of the wave function $\psi$. 
0704.03071	Converting genetic network oscillations into somite spatial pattern	Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)	Authors:K. I. Mazzitello, C. M. Arizmendi, H. G. E. Hentschel	 Abstract: In most vertebrate species, the body axis is generated by the formation of repeated transient structures called somites. This spatial periodicity in somitogenesis has been related to the temporally sustained oscillations in certain mRNAs and their associated gene products in the cells forming the presomatic mesoderm. The mechanism underlying these oscillations have been identified as due to the delays involved in the synthesis of mRNA and translation into protein molecules [J. Lewis, Current Biol. {\bf 13}, 1398 (2003)]. In addition, in the zebrafish embryo intercellular Notch signalling couples these oscillators and a longitudinal positional information signal in the form of an Fgf8 gradient exists that could be used to transform these coupled temporal oscillations into the observed spatial periodicity of somites. Here we consider a simple model based on this known biology and study its consequences for somitogenesis. Comparison is made with the known properties of somite formation in the zebrafish embryo . We also study the effects of localized Fgf8 perturbations on somite patterning. 
0704.03072	LEAVITT: A MIDEX-class Mission for Finding & Characterizing 10,000  Transiting Planets in the Solar Neighborhood	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Rob P. Olling	 Abstract: We propose a MIDEX-class space mission with the goal to find and characterize roughly 10,000 transiting planets. When transits occur, a much more detailed characterization of the planet is possible and so a large data base of transiting planets will provide planets with a large range in periods and radii for follow-up studies. Our survey will be all-sky and focused on stars brighter than V=14.8. Down to V=12, LEAVITT will be able to detect Neptune-sized objects. Because of it's high cadence, LEAVITT is about 100 times more sensitive at detecting transits than GAIA, while it will find more than 20 times as many transits as KEPLER. LEAVITT has multi-band photometric capability implemented via a low-resolution dispersive element which can obtain 0.2% (2 mmag) photometry down to V=14.8. LEAVITT's high multi-band photometric accuracy reduces the number of false-positives significantly. 
0704.03073	The distance and neutral environment of the massive stellar cluster  Westerlund 1	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. Kothes, S.M. Dougherty	 Abstract: The goal of this study is to determine a distance to Westerlund 1 independent of the characteristics of the stellar population and to study its neutral environment, using observations of atomic hydrogen. The HI observations are taken from the Southern Galactic Plane Survey to study HI absorption in the direction of the HII region created by the members of Westerlund 1 and to investigate its environment as observed in the HI line emission. A Galactic rotation curve was derived using the recently revised values for the Galactic centre distance of $R_\odot = 7.6$ kpc, and the velocity of the Sun around the Galactic centre of $\Theta_\odot = 214$ km s$^{-1}$. The newly determined rotation model leads us to derive a distance of $3.9\pm 0.7$ kpc to Westerlund 1, consistent with a location in the Scutum-Crux Arm. Included in this estimate is a very careful investigation of possible sources of error for the Galactic rotation curve. We also report on small expanding HI features around the cluster with a maximum dynamic age of 600,000 years and a larger bubble which has a minimum dynamic age of 2.5 million years. Additionally we re-calculated the kinematic distances to nearby HII regions and supernova remnants based on our new Galaxic rotation curve. We propose that in the early stages of the development of Wd 1 a large interstellar bubble of diameter about 50 pc was created by the cluster members. This bubble has a dynamic age similar to the age of the cluster. Small expanding bubbles, with dynamical ages $\sim 0.6$ Myr are found around Wd 1, which we suggest consist of recombined material lost by cluster members through their winds. 
0704.03074	Quantum Mechanics and Closed Timelike Curves	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Florin Moldoveanu	 Abstract: General relativity allows solutions exhibiting closed timelike curves. Time travel generates paradoxes and quantum mechanics generalizations were proposed to solve those paradoxes. The implications of self-consistent interactions on acausal region of space-time are investigated. If the correspondence principle is true, then all generalizations of quantum mechanics on acausal manifolds are not renormalizable. Therefore quantum mechanics can only be defined on global hyperbolic manifolds and all general relativity solutions exhibiting time travel are unphysical. 
0704.03075	Computation in Sofic Quantum Dynamical Systems	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Karoline Wiesner, James P. Crutchfield	 Abstract: We analyze how measured quantum dynamical systems store and process information, introducing sofic quantum dynamical systems. Using recently introduced information-theoretic measures for quantum processes, we quantify their information storage and processing in terms of entropy rate and excess entropy, giving closed-form expressions where possible. To illustrate the impact of measurement on information storage in quantum processes, we analyze two spin-1 sofic quantum systems that differ only in how they are measured. 
0704.03076	On the detectability of non-trivial topologies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Kunz, N. Aghanim, A. Riazuelo, O. Forni	 Abstract: We explore the main physical processes which potentially affect the topological signal in the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) for a range of toroidal universes. We consider specifically reionisation, the integrated Sachs-Wolfe (ISW) effect, the size of the causal horizon, topological defects and primordial gravitational waves. We use three estimators: the information content, the S/N statistic and the Bayesian evidence. While reionisation has nearly no effect on the estimators, we show that taking into account the ISW strongly decreases our ability to detect the topological signal. We also study the impact of varying the relevant cosmological parameters within the 2 sigma ranges allowed by present data. We find that only Omega_Lambda, which influences both ISW and the size of the causal horizon, significantly alters the detection for all three estimators considered here. 
0704.03077	Star Formation and the Growth of Stellar Mass	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Eric F. Bell (1), Xian Zhong Zheng (1,2), Casey Papovich (3), Andrea Borch (4), Christian Wolf (5), Klaus Meisenheimer (1) ((1) MPIA, Heidelberg, (2) Purple Mountain Observatory, (3) Steward Observatory, (4) ARI, Heidelberg, (5) Oxford)	 Abstract: Recent observations have demonstrated a significant growth in the integrated stellar mass of the red sequence since z=1, dominated by a steadily increasing number of galaxies with stellar masses M* < 10^11 M_sun. In this paper, we use the COMBO-17 photometric redshift survey in conjunction with deep Spitzer 24 micron data to explore the relationship between star formation and the growth of stellar mass. We calculate `star formation rate functions' in four different redshift slices, splitting also into contributions from the red sequence and blue cloud for the first time. We find that the growth of stellar mass since z=1 is consistent with the integrated star formation rate. Yet, most of the stars formed are in blue cloud galaxies. If the stellar mass already in, and formed in, z<1 blue cloud galaxies were to stay in the blue cloud the total stellar mass in blue galaxies would be dramatically overproduced. We explore the expected evolution of stellar mass functions, finding that in this picture the number of massive M* > 3x10^10 M_sun blue galaxies would also be overproduced; i.e., most of the new stars formed in blue cloud galaxies are in the massive galaxies. We explore a simple truncation scenario in which these `extra' blue galaxies have their star formation suppressed by an unspecified mechanism or mechanisms; simple cessation of star formation in these extra blue galaxies is approximately sufficient to build up the red sequence at M*<10^11 M_sun. 
0704.03078	Influence of Orbital Behaviour and Chaos on the Shape of Dark Matter  Halos	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Andrea V. Maccio' (MPIA), Ioannis Sideris (Zurich), Marco Miranda (Zurich), Ben Moore (Zurich), Roland Jesseit (Munich Obs.)	 Abstract: It has been shown that the dissipative gas infall during galaxy formation has the capability to modify the shape of dark matter halos. In this paper we perform the first detailed analysis of particle orbits in a cosmological dark matter halos to understand {\it how} and {\it why} baryons alter its shape. We perform a series of numerical experiments where we grow a baryonic core inside a live dark matter halo extracted from a cosmological simulation. We follow the orbits of more than 300 particles with more that 50000 timesteps. Our results clearly show that the dissipational component is responsible for repeatedly deflecting orbits which visit often the center of the system. Moreover the gravitational potential time dependence associated with the growth of the baryonic mass, shifts the frequencies of the orbits, making them extremely chaotic. This randomization makes the orbits explore a large phase space. When this effect takes place for a significant number of orbits it will be manifested in the density distribution as an approach to a rounder configuration. As a consequence, the influence of the central mass on the shape of the phase space decreases with increasing distance from the center. We discuss the importance of future analysis of controlled experiments (i.e. using analytic potentials instead of live DM halos) to better decipher the dynamics of this phenomenon. 
0704.03079	Ab initio theory of helix-coil phase transition	Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)	Authors:Alexander V. Yakubovich, Ilia A. Solov'yov, Andrey V. Solov'yov, Walter Greiner	 Abstract: In this paper we suggest a theoretical method based on the statistical mechanics for treating the alpha-helix-random coil transition in alanine polypeptides. We consider this process as a first-order phase transition and develop a theory which is free of model parameters and is based solely on fundamental physical principles. It describes essential thermodynamical properties of the system such as heat capacity, the phase transition temperature and others from the analysis of the polypeptide potential energy surface calculated as a function of two dihedral angles, responsible for the polypeptide twisting. The suggested theory is general and with some modification can be applied for the description of phase transitions in other complex molecular systems (e.g. proteins, DNA, nanotubes, atomic clusters, fullerenes). 
0704.03080	D-branes as a Bubbling Calabi-Yau	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Jaume Gomis, Takuya Okuda	 Abstract: We prove that the open topological string partition function on a D-brane configuration in a Calabi-Yau manifold X takes the form of a closed topological string partition function on a different Calabi-Yau manifold X_b. This identification shows that the physics of D-branes in an arbitrary background X of topological string theory can be described either by open+closed string theory in X or by closed string theory in X_b. The physical interpretation of the ''bubbling'' Calabi-Yau X_b is as the space obtained by letting the D-branes in X undergo a geometric transition. This implies, in particular, that the partition function of closed topological string theory on certain bubbling Calabi-Yau manifolds are invariants of knots in the three-sphere. 
0704.03081	Directed Relativistic Blast Wave	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Andrei Gruzinov	 Abstract: A spherically symmetrical ultra-relativistic blast wave is not an attractor of a generic asymmetric explosion. Spherical symmetry is reached only by the time the blast wave slows down to non-relativistic velocities, when the Sedov-Taylor-von Neumann attractor solution sets in. We show however, that a directed relativistic explosion, with the explosion momentum close to the explosion energy, produces a blast wave with a universal intermediate asymptotic -- a selfsimilar directed ultra-relativistic blast wave. This universality might be of interest for the astrophysics of gamma-ray burst afterglows. 
0704.03082	Neumann and Neumann-Rosochatius integrable systems from membranes on  AdS_4xS^7	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:P. Bozhilov	 Abstract: It is known that large class of classical string solutions in the type IIB AdS_5xS^5 background is related to the Neumann and Neumann-Rosochatius integrable systems, including spiky strings and giant magnons. It is also interesting if these integrable systems can be associated with some membrane configurations in M-theory. We show here that this is indeed the case by presenting explicitly several types of membrane embedding in AdS_4xS^7 with the searched properties. 
0704.03083	Late stages of stellar evolution and their impact on spectrophotometric  properties of galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Alberto Buzzoni (INAF, Osservatorio Astronomico di Bologna, Italy)	 Abstract: The connection between AGB evolution of stellar populations and infrared vs. ultraviolet properties of the parent galaxies is reviewed relying on the updated lookout provided by population-synthesis theory. In particular, planetary-nebula events and hot horizontal-branch evolution are assessed in a unitary view to outline a plain general picture of galaxy spectrophotometric evolution. This will include a brief discussion of relevant phenomena such as the "UV upturn" in ellipticals and the stellar mass loss properties along the galaxy morphological sequence. 
0704.03084	Holographic Electroweak Symmetry Breaking from D-branes	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Christopher D. Carone, Joshua Erlich, Marc Sher	 Abstract: We observe several interesting phenomena in a technicolor-like model of electroweak symmetry breaking based on the D4-D8-D8bar system of Sakai and Sugimoto. The benefit of holographic models based on D-brane configurations is that both sides of the holographic duality are well understood. We find that the lightest technicolor resonances contribute negatively to the Peskin-Takeuchi S-parameter, but heavy resonances do not decouple and lead generically to large, positive values of S, consistent with standard estimates in QCD-like theories. We study how the S parameter and the masses and decay constants of the vector and axial-vector techni-resonances vary over a one-parameter family of D8-brane configurations. We discuss possibilities for the consistent truncation of the theory to the first few resonances and suggest some generic predictions of stringy holographic technicolor models. 
0704.03085	Alpha helix-coil phase transition: analysis of ab initio theory  predictions	Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)	Authors:Ilia A. Solov'yov, Alexander V. Yakubovich, Andrey V. Solov'yov, Walter Greiner	 Abstract: In the present paper we present results of calculations obtained with the use of the theoretical method described in our preceding paper [1] and perform detail analysis of alpha helix-random coil transition in alanine polypeptides of different length. We have calculated the potential energy surfaces of polypeptides with respect to their twisting degrees of freedom and construct a parameter-free partition function of the polypeptide using the suggested method [1]. From the build up partition function we derive various thermodynamical characteristics for alanine polypeptides of different length as a function of temperature. Thus, we analyze the temperature dependence of the heat capacity, latent heat and helicity for alanine polypeptides consisting of 21, 30, 40, 50 and 100 amino acids. Alternatively, we have obtained same thermodynamical characteristics from the use of molecular dynamics simulations and compared them with the results of the new statistical mechanics approach. The comparison proves the validity of the statistical mechanic approach and establishes its accuracy. 
0704.03086	Scaling limit for a class of gradient fields with nonconvex potentials	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Marek Biskup, Herbert Spohn	 Abstract: We consider gradient fields $(\phi_x:x\in \mathbb{Z}^d)$ whose law takes the Gibbs--Boltzmann form $Z^{-1}\exp\{-\sum_{< x,y>}V(\phi_y-\phi_x)\}$, where the sum runs over nearest neighbors. We assume that the potential $V$ admits the representation \[V(\eta):=-\log\int\varrho({d}\kappa)\exp\biggl[-{1/2}\kappa\et a^2\biggr],\] where $\varrho$ is a positive measure with compact support in $(0,\infty)$. Hence, the potential $V$ is symmetric, but nonconvex in general. While for strictly convex $V$'s, the translation-invariant, ergodic gradient Gibbs measures are completely characterized by their tilt, a nonconvex potential as above may lead to several ergodic gradient Gibbs measures with zero tilt. Still, every ergodic, zero-tilt gradient Gibbs measure for the potential $V$ above scales to a Gaussian free field. 
0704.03087	Hausdorff Dimension of Exponential Parameter Rays and Their Endpoints	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Mihai Bailesteanu, Vlad Balan, Dierk Schleicher	 Abstract: We investigate the set $I$ of parameters $\kappa$ for which the singular value of $z\mapsto e^z+\kappa$ converges to $\infty$. The set $I$ consists of uncountably many parameter rays, plus landing points of some of these rays. We show that the parameter rays have Hausdorff dimension 1, while the ray endpoints in $I$ alone have dimension 2. Analogous results were known for dynamical planes of exponential maps; our result shows that this also holds in parameter space. 
0704.03088	The 74MHz System on the Very Large Array	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:N. E. Kassim, T. J. W. Lazio, W. C. Erickson, R. A. Perley, W. D. Cotton, E. W. Greisen, A. S. Cohen, B. Hicks, H. R. Schmitt, D. Katz	 Abstract: The Naval Research Laboratory and the National Radio Astronomy Observatory completed implementation of a low frequency capability on the VLA at 73.8 MHz in 1998. This frequency band offers unprecedented sensitivity (~25 mJy/beam) and resolution (~25 arcsec) for low-frequency observations. We review the hardware, the calibration and imaging strategies, comparing them to those at higher frequencies, including aspects of interference excision and wide-field imaging. Ionospheric phase fluctuations pose the major difficulty in calibrating the array. Over restricted fields of view or at times of extremely quiescent ionospheric ``weather'', an angle-invariant calibration strategy can be used. In this approach a single phase correction is devised for each antenna, typically via self-calibration. Over larger fields of view or at times of more normal ionospheric ``weather'' when the ionospheric isoplanatic patch size is smaller than the field of view, we adopt a field-based strategy in which the phase correction depends upon location within the field of view. This second calibration strategy was implemented by modeling the ionosphere above the array using Zernike polynomials. Images of 3C sources of moderate strength are provided as examples of routine, angle-invariant calibration and imaging. Flux density measurements indicate that the 74 MHz flux scale at the VLA is stable to a few percent, and tied to the Baars et al. value of Cygnus A at the 5 percent level. We also present an example of a wide-field image, devoid of bright objects and containing hundreds of weaker sources, constructed from the field-based calibration. We close with a summary of lessons the 74 MHz system offers as a model for new and developing low-frequency telescopes. (Abridged) 
0704.03089	Pure Virtual Braids Homotopic to the Identity Braid	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:H. A. Dye	 Abstract: Two virtual link diagrams are homotopic if one may be transformed into the other by a sequence of virtual Reidemeister moves, classical Reidemeister moves, and self crossing changes. We recall the pure virtual braid group. We then describe the set of pure virtual braids that are homotopic to the identity braid. 
0704.03090	Modules over operads and functors	Algebraic Topology (math.AT)	Authors:Benoit Fresse	 Abstract: In the theory of operads we consider functors of generalized symmetric powers defined by sums of coinvariant modules under actions of symmetric groups. One observes classically that the construction of symmetric functors provides an isomorphism from the category of symmetric modules to a subcategory of the category of functors on the base category. The purpose of this book is to obtain a similar relationship for functors on a category of algebras over an operad. We observe that right modules over operads, symmetric modules equipped with a right operad action, give rise to functors on categories of algebras and we prove that this construction yields an embedding of categories. Then we check that right modules over operads form a model category. In addition we prove that weak-equivalences of right modules correspond to pointwise weak-equivalences at the functor level. As a conclusion, we obtain that right modules over operads supply good models for the homotopy of associated functors on algebras over operads. 
0704.03091	Triacontagonal coordinates for the E(8) root system	General Mathematics (math.GM)	Authors:David A. Richter	 Abstract: This note gives an explicit formula for the elements of the E(8) root system. The formula is triacontagonally symmetric in that one may clearly see an action by the cyclic group with 30 elements. The existence of such a formula is due to the fact that the Coxeter number of E(8) is 30. 
0704.03092	Extensions of operator algebras I	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:David P. Blecher, Maureen K. Royce	 Abstract: We transcribe a portion of the theory of extensions of C*-algebras to general operator algebras. We also include several new general facts about approximately unital ideals in operator algebras and the C*-algebras which they generate. 
0704.03093	Whitehead double and Milnor invariants	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Jean-Baptiste Meilhan, Akira Yasuhara	 Abstract: We consider the operation of Whitehead double on a component of a link and study the behavior of Milnor invariants under this operation. We show that this operation turns a link whose Milnor invariants of length < k are all zero into a link with vanishing Milnor invariants of length < 2k, and we provide formulas for the first non-vanishing ones. As a consequence, we obtain statements relating the notions of link-homotopy and self Delta-equivalence via the Whitehead double operation. By using our result, we show that a Brunnian link L is link-homotopic to the unlink if and only if a link L with a single component Whitehed doubled is self Delta-equivalent to the unlink. 
0704.03094	Detection of two-sided alternatives in a Brownian motion model	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Olympia Hadjiliadis, H.Vincent Poor	 Abstract: This work examines the problem of sequential detection of a change in the drift of a Brownian motion in the case of two-sided alternatives. Applications to real life situations in which two-sided changes can occur are discussed. Traditionally, 2-CUSUM stopping rules have been used for this problem due to their asymptotically optimal character as the mean time between false alarms tends to $\infty$. In particular, attention has focused on 2-CUSUM harmonic mean rules due to the simplicity in calculating their first moments. In this paper, we derive closed-form expressions for the first moment of a general 2-CUSUM stopping rule. We use these expressions to obtain explicit upper and lower bounds for it. Moreover, we derive an expression for the rate of change of this first moment as one of the threshold parameters changes. Based on these expressions we obtain explicit upper and lower bounds to this rate of change. Using these expressions we are able to find the best 2-CUSUM stopping rule with respect to the extended Lorden criterion. In fact, we demonstrate not only the existence but also the uniqueness of the best 2-CUSUM stopping both in the case of a symmetric change and in the case of a non-symmetric case. Furthermore, we discuss the existence of a modification of the 2-CUSUM stopping rule that has a strictly better performance than its classical 2-CUSUM counterpart for small values of the mean time between false alarms. We conclude with a discussion on the open problem of strict optimality in the case of two-sided alternatives. 
0704.03095	Ordered involutive operator spaces	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:David P. Blecher, Kay Kirkpatrick, Matthew Neal, Wend Werner	 Abstract: This is a companion to recent papers of the authors; here we construct the `noncommutative Shilov boundary' of a (possibly nonunital) selfadjoint ordered space of Hilbert space operators. The morphisms in the universal property of the boundary preserve order. As an application, we consider `maximal' and `minimal' unitizations of such ordered operator spaces. 
0704.03096	On a class of non-simply connected Calabi-Yau threefolds	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Vincent Bouchard, Ron Donagi	 Abstract: We obtain a detailed classification for a class of non-simply connected Calabi-Yau threefolds which are of potential interest for a wide range of problems in string phenomenology. These threefolds arise as quotients of Schoen's Calabi-Yau threefolds, which are fiber products over P1 of two rational elliptic surfaces. The quotient is by a freely acting finite abelian group preserving the fibrations. Our work involves a classification of restricted finite automorphism groups of rational elliptic surfaces. 
0704.03097	Spatially resolved kinematics and stellar populations of brightest  cluster and group galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Brough (Swinburne University), R. Proctor (Swin), D. Forbes (Swin), W. Couch (Swin), C. Collins (Liverpool John Moores), D. Burke (CfA), R. Mann (ROE)	 Abstract: We present an examination of the kinematics and stellar populations of a sample of 3 Brightest Group Galaxies (BGGs) and 3 Brightest Cluster Galaxies (BCGs) in X-ray groups and clusters. We have obtained high signal-to-noise Gemini/GMOS (Gemini South Multi-Object Spectrograph) long-slit spectra of these galaxies and use Lick indices to determine ages, metallicities and alpha-element abundance ratios out to at least their effective radii. We find that the BGGs and BCGs have very uniform masses, central ages and central metallicities. Examining the radial dependence of their stellar populations, we find no significant velocity dispersion, age, or alpha-enhancement gradients. However, we find a wide range of metallicity gradients, suggesting a variety of formation mechanisms. The range of metallicity gradients observed is surprising given the homogeneous environment these galaxies probe and their uniform central stellar populations. However, our results are inconsistent with any single model of galaxy formation and emphasize the need for more theoretical understanding of both the origins of metallicity gradients and galaxy formation itself. We postulate two possible physical causes for the different formation mechanisms. 
0704.03098	The contour of splitting trees is a Lévy process	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Amaury Lambert (PMA)	 Abstract: Splitting trees are those random trees where individuals give birth at constant rate during a lifetime with general distribution, to i.i.d. copies of themselves. The width process of a splitting tree is then a binary, homogeneous Crump--Mode--Jagers (CMJ) process, and is not Markovian unless the lifetime distribution is exponential. Here, we allow the birth rate to be infinite, that is, pairs of birth times and lifespans of newborns form a Poisson point process along the lifetime of their mother, with possibly infinite intensity measure. A splitting tree is a random (so-called) chronological tree. Each element of a chronological tree is a (so-called) existence point $(v,\tau)$ of some individual $v$ (vertex) in a discrete tree, where $\tau$ is a nonnegative real number called chronological level (time). We introduce a total order on existence points, called linear order, and a mapping $\varphi$ from the tree into the real line which preserves this order. The inverse of $\varphi$ is called the exploration process, and the projection of this inverse on chronological levels the contour process. For splitting trees truncated up to level $\tau$, we prove that thus defined contour process is a L\'evy process reflected below $\tau$ and killed upon hitting 0. This allows to derive properties of (i) splitting trees: conceptual proof of Le Gall--Le Jan's theorem in the finite variation case, exceptional points, coalescent point process, age distribution; (ii) CMJ processes: one-dimensional marginals, conditionings, limit theorems, asymptotic numbers of individuals with infinite vs finite descendances. 
0704.03099	Elliptic hypergeometric functions	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:V.P. Spiridonov	 Abstract: This is a brief overview of the status of the theory of elliptic hypergeometric functions to the end of 2012 written as a complementary chapter to the Russian edition of the book by G.E. Andrews, R. Askey, and R. Roy, Special Functions, Encycl. of Math. Appl. 71, Cambridge Univ. Press, 1999. 
0704.03100	The Origin of the Galaxy Mass-Metallicity Relation and Implications for  Galactic Outflows	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K. Finlator, R. Dave	 Abstract: (Abridged) Using cosmological hydrodynamic simulations in combination with analytic modeling, we show that the galaxy stellar mass-metallicity relation (MZR) provides strong constraints on galactic outflows across cosmic time. We compare three outflow models: No outflows, a "constant wind" (cw) model that emulates the popular Dekel & Silk (1986) scenario, and a ``momentum-driven wind" (vzw) model. We find that only the vzw scaling reproduces the observed z~2 MZR's slope, amplitude, and scatter. Comparing our fully three-dimensional simulations with a simple one-zone chemical evolution model, we find that the MZR can be understood in terms of three parameters: (1) The equilibrium metallicity Z_eq=y*SFR/ACC (where y=true yield), reflecting the enrichment balance between star formation rate SFR and gas accretion rate ACC; (2) the dilution time t_d=M_g/ACC, representing the timescale for a galaxy to return to Z_eq after a metallicity-perturbing interaction; and (3) the blowout mass M_blowout, which is the galaxy stellar mass above which winds can escape its halo. When outflows with mass loading factor MLF are present, galaxies below M_blowout obey Z_eq = y/(1+MLF), while above M_blowout, Z_eq->y. Our cw model has M_blowout ~ 10^10 M_sun, which yields a sharp upturn in the MZR above this scale and a flat MZR with large scatter below it, in strong disagreement with observations. Our vzw model reproduces the observed Z_g \propto M_*^0.3 because Z_eq \propto MLF^-1 \propto M_*^1/3 when MLF >> 1 (i.e. at low masses). The flattening of the MZR at M_* > 10^10.5 M_sun observed by Tremonti et al. (2004) reflects the mass scale where MLF~1, rather than a characteristic wind speed. The tight observed MZR scatter is ensured when t_d<1 dynamical time, which is only satisified at all masses and epochs in our momentum-driven wind model. 
0704.03101	A new candidate for non-strangeness pentaquarks: N*(1675)	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Seung-il Nam, Ki-Seok Choi, Atsushi Hosaka, Hyun-Chul Kim	 Abstract: We study a new nucleon resonance from eta photoproduction, which was observed at sqrt{s}=1675 MeV with a narrow decay width (~10 MeV) by the Tohoku LNS group as well as the GRAAL collaboration. Using an effective Lagrangian approach, we compute differential cross sections for the eta photoproduction. In addition to N*(1675,1/2+-,3/2+-), we employ six other nucleon resonances, i.e. N*(1520,1535,1650,1675,1710,1720) and vector meson exchanges which are the most relevant ones to this reaction process. As a result, we can reproduce the GRAAL data qualitatively well and observe obvious isospin asymmetry between the transition magnetic moments of N*(1675): mu_{gamma nn*} >> mu_{gamma pp*}, which indicates that the newly found nucleon resonance may be identified as a non-strange pentaquark state. 
0704.03102	Geometrothermodynamics of black holes	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Hernando Quevedo	 Abstract: The thermodynamics of black holes is reformulated within the context of the recently developed formalism of geometrothermodynamics. This reformulation is shown to be invariant with respect to Legendre transformations, and to allow several equivalent representations. Legendre invariance allows us to explain a series of contradictory results known in the literature from the use of Weinhold's and Ruppeiner's thermodynamic metrics for black holes. For the Reissner-Nordstr\"om black hole the geometry of the space of equilibrium states is curved, showing a non trivial thermodynamic interaction, and the curvature contains information about critical points and phase transitions. On the contrary, for the Kerr black hole the geometry is flat and does not explain its phase transition structure. 
0704.03103	Communication through plasma sheaths	Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)	Authors:A.O. Korotkevich (1), A.C. Newell (2), V.E. Zakharov (2,3,4,1) ((1) Landau Institute for Theoretical Physics RAS, (2) Department of Mathematics, University of Arizona, Tucson, (3) Lebedev Physical Institute RAS, (4) Waves and Solitons LLC, Phoenix)	 Abstract: We wish to transmit messages to and from a hypersonic vehicle around which a plasma sheath has formed. For long distance transmission, the signal carrying these messages must be necessarily low frequency, typically 2 GHz, to which the plasma sheath is opaque. The idea is to use the plasma properties to make the plasma sheath appear transparent. 
0704.03104	The first determination of the actinide Th abundance for a red giant of  the Ursa Minor dwarf galaxy	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Wako Aoki, Satoshi Honda, Kozo Sadakane, Nobuo Arimoto	 Abstract: The Thorium abundance for the red giant COS82 in the Ursa Minor dwarf spheroidal galaxy is determined based on a high resolution spectrum. This is the first detection of actinides in an extra Galactic object. A detailed abundance pattern is determined for 12 other neutron-capture elements from the atomic number 39 to 68. These elements are significantly over-abundant with respect to other metals like Fe (> 1 dex) and their abundance pattern agrees well with those of the r-process-enhanced, very metal-poor stars known in the Galactic halo, while the metallicity of this object ([Fe/H] ~ -1.5) is much higher than these field stars ([Fe/H] ~ -3.0). The results indicate that the mechanism and the astrophysical site that are responsible for neutron-capture elements in COS82 is similar to that for field r-process-enhanced stars, while the condition of low mass star formation is quite different. An estimate of the age of this object based on the Th abundance ratio is discussed. 
0704.03105	Studying the scalar bound states of the $K\bar K$ system in the  Bethe-Salpeter formalism	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Xin-Heng Guo, Xing-Hua Wu	 Abstract: We study the possible bound states of the $K\bar K$ system in the Bethe-Salpeter formalism in the ladder and instantaneous approximations. We find that the bound states exist. However, these bound states have very small decay widths. Therefore, besides the possible $K\bar K$ component, there may be some other structures in the observed $f_0(980)$ and $a_0(980)$ . 
0704.03106	A Surprising Reversal of Temperatures in the Brown-Dwarf Eclipsing  Binary 2MASS J05352184-0546085	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Keivan G. Stassun, Robert D. Mathieu, Jeff A. Valenti	 Abstract: The newly discovered brown-dwarf eclipsing binary 2MASS J05352184-0546085 provides a unique laboratory for testing the predictions of theoretical models of brown-dwarf formation and evolution. The finding that the lower-mass brown dwarf in this system is hotter than its higher-mass companion represents a challenge to brown-dwarf evolutionary models, none of which predict this behavior. Here we present updated determinations of the basic physical properties of 2M0535-05, bolstering the surprising reversal of temperatures with mass in this system. We compare these measurements with widely used brown-dwarf evolutionary tracks, and find that the temperature reversal can be explained by some models if the components of 2M0535-05 are mildly non-coeval, possibly consistent with dynamical simulations of brown-dwarf formation. Alternatively, a strong magnetic field on the higher-mass brown dwarf might explain its anomalously low surface temperature, consistent with emerging evidence that convection is suppressed in magnetically active, low-mass stars. Finally, we discuss future observational and theoretical work needed to further characterize and understand this benchmark system. 
0704.03107	The Representation Aspect of the Generalized Hydrogen Atoms	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Guowu Meng	 Abstract: Let $D\ge 1$ be an integer. In the Enright-Howe-Wallach classification list of the unitary highest weight modules of $\widetilde{\mr{Spin}}(2, D+1)$, the (nontrivial) Wallach representations in Case II, Case III, and the mirror of Case III are special in the sense that they are precisely the ones that can be realized by the Hilbert space of bound states for a generalized hydrogen atom in dimension D. It has been shown recently that each of these special Wallach representations can be realized as the space of L^2-sections of a canonical hermitian bundle over the punctured ${\bb R}^D$. Here a simple algebraic characterization of these special Wallach representations is found. 
0704.03108	Synchrotron Radio Emission from a Fast Halo Coronal Mass Ejection	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T. S. Bastian	 Abstract: An interplanetary (IP) type-II-like radio burst is analyzed. It occurred on 2003 June 17-18 in association with a fast halo coronal mass ejection (CME), an M6.8 soft-X-ray (SXR) flare, and produced a solar proton event. Unlike coronal type II bursts and the ma jority of IP type II radio emissions, the IP type-II-like event associated with the fast halo CME on June 17-18 varies smoothly in time and frequency and has a frequency bandwidth that is several times larger than is typical for coronal and IP type II emissions. Moreover, the frequency change with time is inconsistent with that expected from plasma radiation associated with a CME-driven shock. I suggest that this IP type-II-like event, referred to here as an IP type II-S event, is not due to plasma radiation but, rather, incoherent synchrotron radiation from near-relativistic electrons entrained in the CME magnetic field, or in the sheath region between the shock and the CME driver. This event may be an example of a new and distinct class of interplanetary radio phenomenon. 
0704.03109	Dynamical Yang-Baxter Maps with an Invariance Condition	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Youichi Shibukawa	 Abstract: By means of left quasigroups L=(L, .) and ternary systems, we construct dynamical Yang-Baxter maps associated with L, L, and (.) satisfying an invariance condition that the binary operation (.) of the left quasigroup L defines. Conversely, this construction characterize such dynamical Yang-Baxter maps. The unitary condition of the dynamical Yang-Baxter map is discussed. Moreover, we establish a correspondence between two dynamical Yang-Baxter maps constructed in this paper. This correspondence produces a version of the vertex-IRF correspondence. 
0704.03110	On the blowing up of solutions to quantum hydrodynamic models on bounded  domains	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Irene M. Gamba, Maria Pia Gualdani, Ping Zhang	 Abstract: The blow-up in finite time for the solutions to the initial-boundary value problem associated to the multi-dimensional quantum hydrodynamic model in a bounded domain is proved. The model consists on conservation of mass equation and a momentum balance equation equivalent to a compressible Euler equations corrected by a dispersion term of the third order in the momentum balance. The proof is based on a-priori estimates for the energy functional for a new observable constructed with an auxiliary function, and it is shown that, under suitable boundary conditions and assumptions on the initial data, the solution blows up after a finite time. 
0704.03111	Anisotropic softening of collective charge modes in the vicinity of  critical doping in a doped Mott insulator	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Y.W. Li, D. Qian, L. Wray, D. Hsieh, Y. Kaga, T. Sasagawa, H. Takagi, R.S. Markiewicz, A. Bansil, H. Eisaki, S. Uchida, M.Z. Hasan	 Abstract: Momentum resolved inelastic resonant x-ray scattering is used to map the evolution of charge excitations over a large range of energies, momenta and doping levels in the electron doped Mott insulator class Nd$_{2-x}$Ce$_x$CuO$_4$. As the doping induced AFM-SC (antiferromagnetic-superconducting) transition is approached, we observe an anisotropic softening of collective charge modes over a large energy scale along the Gamma to (\pi,\pi)-direction, whereas the modes exhibit broadening ($\sim$ 1 eV) with relatively little softening along Gamma to (\pi,0) with respect to the parent Mott insulator (x=0). Our study indicates a systematic collapse of the gap consistent with the scenario that the system dopes uniformly with electrons even though the softening of the modes involves an unusually large energy scale. 
0704.03112	Enhanced dielectrophoresis of nanocolloids by dimer formation	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Emppu Salonen, Emma Terama, Ilpo Vattulainen, Mikko Karttunen	 Abstract: We investigate the dielectrophoretic motion of charge-neutral, polarizable nanocolloids through molecular dynamics simulations. Comparison to analytical results derived for continuum systems shows that the discrete charge distributions on the nanocolloids have a significant impact on their coupling to the external field. Aggregation of nanocolloids leads to enhanced dielectrophoretic transport, provided that increase in the dipole moment upon aggregation can overcome the related increase in friction. The dimer orientation and the exact structure of the nanocolloid charge distribution are shown to be important in the enhanced transport. 
0704.03113	Self similar expanding solutions of the planar network flow	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Rafe Mazzeo, Mariel Saez	 Abstract: We prove the existence of self-similar expanding solutions of the curvature flow on planar networks where the initial configuration is any number of half-lines meeting at the origin. This generalizes recent work by Schn\"urer and Schulze which treats the case of three half-lines. There are multiple solutions, and these are parametrized by combinatorial objects, namely Steiner trees with respect to a complete negatively curved metric on the unit ball which span $k$ specified points on the boundary at infinity. We also provide a sharp formulation of the regularity of these solutions at $t=0$. 
0704.03114	Topological Winding and Unwinding in Metastable Bose-Einstein  Condensates	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Rina Kanamoto, Lincoln D. Carr, Masahito Ueda	 Abstract: Topological winding and unwinding in a quasi-one-dimensional metastable Bose-Einstein condensate are shown to be manipulated by changing the strength of interaction or the frequency of rotation. Exact diagonalization analysis reveals that quasidegenerate states emerge spontaneously near the transition point, allowing a smooth crossover between topologically distinct states. On a mean-field level, the transition is accompanied by formation of grey solitons, or density notches, which serve as an experimental signature of this phenomenon. 
0704.03115	Local impurity effects in superconducting graphene	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:T. O. Wehling, H. P. Dahal, A. I. Lichtenstein, A. V. Balatsky	 Abstract: We study the effect of impurities in superconducting graphene and discuss their influence on the local electronic properties. In particular, we consider the case of magnetic and non-magnetic impurities being either strongly localized or acting as a potential averaged over one unit cell. The spin dependent local density of states is calculated and possibilities for visualizing impurities by means of scanning tunneling experiments is pointed out. A possibility of identifying magnetic scatters even by non spin-polarized scanning tunneling spectroscopy is explained. 
0704.03116	Combinatorics and Boson normal ordering: A gentle introduction	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:P. Blasiak (1), A. Horzela (1), K. A. Penson (2), A. I. Solomon (2), G. H. E. Duchamp (3),  ((1) Polish Academy of Sciences, Krakow, Poland, (2) LPTMC, University of Paris VI, France, (3) Institut Galilee, University of Paris, France)	 Abstract: We discuss a general combinatorial framework for operator ordering problems by applying it to the normal ordering of the powers and exponential of the boson number operator. The solution of the problem is given in terms of Bell and Stirling numbers enumerating partitions of a set. This framework reveals several inherent relations between ordering problems and combinatorial objects, and displays the analytical background to Wick's theorem. The methodology can be straightforwardly generalized from the simple example given herein to a wide class of operators. 
0704.03117	Positronic complexes with unnatural parity	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:M.W.J. Bromley, J. Mitroy, K. Varga	 Abstract: The structure of the unnatural parity states of PsH, LiPs, NaPs and KPs are investigated with the configuration interaction and stochastic variational methods. The binding energies (in hartree) are found to be 8.17x10-4, 4.42x10-4, 15.14x10-4 and 21.80x10-4 respectively. These states are constructed by first coupling the two electrons into a configuration which is predominantly 3Pe, and then adding a p-wave positron. All the active particles are in states in which the relative angular momentum between any pair of particles is at least L = 1. The LiPs state is Borromean since there are no 3-body bound subsystems (of the correct symmetry) of the (Li+, e-, e-, e+) particles that make up the system. The dominant decay mode of these states will be radiative decay into a configuration that autoionizes or undergoes positron annihilation. 
0704.03118	Proof of the Flohr-Grabow-Koehn conjectures for characters of  logarithmic conformal field theory	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:S Ole Warnaar	 Abstract: In a recent paper Flohr, Grabow and Koehn conjectured that the characters of the logarithmic conformal field theory c_{k,1}, of central charge c=1-6(k-1)^2/k, admit fermionic representations labelled by the Lie algebra D_k. In this note we provide a simple analytic proof of this conjecture. 
0704.03119	Stability and hierarchy problems in string inspired braneworld scenarios	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Saurya Das (U of Lethbridge), Anindya Dey (HRI, Allahabad), Soumitra SenGupta (IACS, Kolkata)	 Abstract: We generalise the RS braneworld model by taking into account a general stringy bulk containing the scalar dilaton field and the two-form Kalb-Ramond field, apart from gravity. Assuming small fluctuations around a RS background, the back-reacted warp factor is obtained. It is shown that the fine tuning problem in connection with the Higgs mass reappears in a new guise and the effective modular potential fails to stabilise the braneworld. 
0704.03120	Space Time Codes from Permutation Codes	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Oliver Henkel	 Abstract: A new class of space time codes with high performance is presented. The code design utilizes tailor-made permutation codes, which are known to have large minimal distances as spherical codes. A geometric connection between spherical and space time codes has been used to translate them into the final space time codes. Simulations demonstrate that the performance increases with the block lengths, a result that has been conjectured already in previous work. Further, the connection to permutation codes allows for moderate complex en-/decoding algorithms. 
0704.03121	Hybrid Chaplygin gas and phantom divide crossing	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Hongsheng Zhang, Zong-Hong Zhu, Lihua Yang	 Abstract: Hybrid Chaplygin gas model is put forward, in which the gases play the role of dark energy. For this model the coincidence problem is greatly alleviated. The effective equation of state of the dark energy may cross the phantom divide $w=-1$. Furthermore, the crossing behaviour is decoupled from any gravity theories. In the present model, $w<-1$ is only a transient behaviour. There is a de Sitter attractor in the future infinity. Hence, the big rip singularity, which often afflicts the models with matter whose effective equation of state less than -1, is naturally disappear. There exist stable scaling solutions, both at the early universe and the late universe. We discuss the perturbation growth of this model. We find that the index is consistent with observations. 
0704.03122	Two-parameter Poisson-Dirichlet measures and reversible exchangeable  fragmentation-coalescence processes	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Jean Bertoin (PMA, Dma)	 Abstract: We show that for $0<\alpha<1$ and $\theta>-\alpha$, the Poisson-Dirichlet distribution with parameter $(\alpha, \theta)$ is the unique reversible distribution of a rather natural fragmentation-coalescence process. This completes earlier results in the literature for certain split and merge transformations and the parameter $\alpha =0$. 
0704.03123	On factorization of $q$-difference equation for continuous  $q$-ultraspherical polynomials	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:I. Area, M.K. Atakishiyeva, J. Rodal	 Abstract: We prove that a customary Sturm-Liouville form of second-order $q$-difference equation for the continuous $q$-ultraspherical polynomials $C_n(x;\beta| q)$ of Rogers can be written in a factorized form in terms of some explicitly defined $q$-difference operator ${\mathcal D}_x^{\beta, q}$. This reveals the fact that the continuous $q$-ultraspherical polynomials $C_n(x;\beta| q)$ are actually governed by the $q$-difference equation ${\mathcal D}_x^{\beta, q} C_n(x;\beta| q)= (q^{-n/2}+\beta q^{n/2}) C_n(x;\beta| q)$, which can be regarded as a square root of the equation, obtained from its original form. 
0704.03124	A second order minimality condition for the Mumford-Shah functional	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Filippo Cagnetti, Maria Giovanna Mora, Massimiliano Morini	 Abstract: A new necessary minimality condition for the Mumford-Shah functional is derived by means of second order variations. It is expressed in terms of a sign condition for a nonlocal quadratic form on $H^1_0(\Gamma)$, $\Gamma$ being a submanifold of the regular part of the discontinuity set of the critical point. Two equivalent formulations are provided: one in terms of the first eigenvalue of a suitable compact operator, the other involving a sort of nonlocal capacity of $\Gamma$. A sufficient condition for minimality is also deduced. Finally, an explicit example is discussed, where a complete characterization of the domains where the second variation is nonnegative can be given. 
0704.03125	Theory of the tunneling spectroscopy of ferromagnetic superconductors	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:T. Yokoyama, Y. Tanaka	 Abstract: We study tunneling conductance in normal metal / insulator / ferromagnetic superconductor junctions. The tunneling spectra show a clear difference between spin-singlet s-wave pairing, spin-triplet opposite spin pairing and spin-triplet equal spin pairing: These pairings exhibit, respectively, gap struture, double peak structure and zero bias peak in the spectra. The obtained result may serve as a tool for determining the pairing symmetry of ferromagnetic superconductors. 
0704.03126	A quantitative model for IcR product in d-wave Josephson junctions	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:T. Yokoyama, Y. Sawa, Y. Tanaka, A. A. Golubov, A. Maeda, A. Fujimaki	 Abstract: We study theoretically the Josephson effect in d-wave superconductor / diffusive normal metal /insulator/ diffusive normal metal/ d-wave superconductor (D/DN/I/DN/D) junctions. This model is aimed to describe practical junctions in high-$T_C$ cuprate superconductors, in which the product of the critical Josephson current ($I_C$) and the normal state resistance ($R$) (the so-called $I_{\rm C}R$ product) is very small compared to the prediction of the standard theory. We show that the $I_{\rm C}R$ product in D/DN/I/DN/D junctions can be much smaller than that in d-wave superconductor / insulator / d-wave superconductor junctions and formulate the conditions necessary to achieve large $I_{\rm C}R$ product in D/DN/I/DN/D junctions. The proposed theory describes the behavior of $I_{\rm C}R$ products quantitatively in high-$T_{\rm C}$ cuprate junctions. 
0704.03127	The existence of superinvolutions	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Alberto Elduque, Oliver Villa	 Abstract: Superinvolutions on graded associative algebras constitute a source of Lie and Jordan superalgebras. Graded versions of the classical Albert and Albert-Riehm Theorems on the existence of superinvolutions are proven. Surprisingly, the existence of superinvolutions of the first kind is a rare phenomenon, as nontrivial central division superalgebras are never endowed with this kind of superinvolutions. 
0704.03128	Variation of the Amati Relation with the Cosmological Redshift: a  Selection Effect or an Evolution Effect?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Li-Xin Li (MPA)	 Abstract: Because of the limit in the number of gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) with available redshifts and spectra, all current investigations on the correlation among GRB variables use burst samples with redshifts that span a very large range. The evolution and selection effects have thus been ignored, which might have important influence on the results. In this Letter, we divide the 48 long-duration GRBs in Amati (2006, 2007) into four groups with redshift from low to high, each group contains 12 GRBs. Then we fit each group with the Amati relation $\log E_\iso = a + b \log E_\p$, and check if the parameters $a$ and $b$ evolve with the GRB redshift. We find that $a$ and $b$ vary with the mean redshift of the GRBs in each group systematically and significantly. Monte-Carlo simulations show that there is only $\sim 4$ percent of chance that the variation is caused by the selection effect arising from the fluence limit. Hence, our results may indicate that GRBs evolve strongly with the cosmological redshift. 
0704.03129	Sums over geometries and improvements on the mean field approximation	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Vincent E. Sacksteder IV	 Abstract: The saddle points of a Lagrangian due to Efetov are analyzed. This Lagrangian was originally proposed as a tool for calculating systematic corrections to the Bethe approximation, a mean-field approximation which is important in statistical mechanics, glasses, coding theory, and combinatorial optimization. Detailed analysis shows that the trivial saddle point generates a sum over geometries reminiscent of dynamically triangulated quantum gravity, which suggests new possibilities to design sums over geometries for the specific purpose of obtaining improved mean field approximations to $D$-dimensional theories. In the case of the Efetov theory, the dominant geometries are locally tree-like, and the sum over geometries diverges in a way that is similar to quantum gravity's divergence when all topologies are included. Expertise from the field of dynamically triangulated quantum gravity about sums over geometries may be able to remedy these defects and fulfill the Efetov theory's original promise. The other saddle points of the Efetov Lagrangian are also analyzed; the Hessian at these points is nonnormal and pseudo-Hermitian, which is unusual for bosonic theories. The standard formula for Gaussian integrals is generalized to nonnormal kernels. 
0704.03130	Hartree-Fock Approximation and Entanglement	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Luigi Martina, Giulio Soliani	 Abstract: The relation between the correlation energy and the entanglement is analytically constructed for the Moshinsky's model of two coupled harmonic oscillators. It turns out that the two quantities are far to be proportional, even at very small couplings. A comparison is made also with the 2-point Ising model. 
0704.03131	Observing high redshift galaxy clusters through lensing of the  Ostriker-Vishniac effect	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J.M. Diego, D. Herranz	 Abstract: In this paper we study the possibility of detecting lensing signals in high-resolution and high-sensitivity CMB experiments. At scales below 1 arcmin, the CMB background is dominated by the Sunyaev-Zel'dovich effect in clusters and by Ostriker-Vishniac effect distortions elsewhere. Assuming the Sunyaev-Zel'dovich component in clusters can be removed, we focus on the Ostriker-Vishniac effect and study the possibility of its detection while paying special attention to contaminants, such as instrumental noise and point sources. After designing an optimal filter for this particular lensing signal we explore the signal-to-noise ratio for different scenarios varying the resolution of the experiment, its sensitivity, and the level of contamination due to point sources. Our results show that the next generation of experiments should be able to do new and exciting science through the lensing effect of the Ostriker-Vishniac background. 
0704.03132	Direct CP violation in $\bar{B}^0 \to ρ^0(ω)ρ^0(ω) \to  π^+π^-π^+π^-$	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:X.-H. Guo, Z.-H. Zhang	 Abstract: We study the direct CP violation in $\bar{B}^0 \to \rho^0(\omega)\rho^0(\omega) \to \pi^+\pi^-\pi^+\pi^-$ (with unpolarized $\rho^0(\omega)$) via the $\rho-\omega$ mixing mechanism which causes a large strong phase difference and consequently a large CP violating asymmetry when the masses of the $\pi^+\pi^-$ pairs are in the vicinity of the $\omega$ resonance. Since there are two $\rho (\omega)$ mesons in the intermediate state $\rho-\omega$ mixing contributes twice to the first order of isospin violation, leading to an even larger CP violating asymmetry (could be 30% -- 50% larger) than in the case where only one $\rho (\omega)$ meson is involved. The CP violating asymmetry depends on the Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa (CKM) matrix elements and the hadronic matrix elements. The factorization approach is applied in the calculation of the hadronic matrix elements with the nonfactorizable effects being included effectively in an effective parameter, $N_c$. We give the constraint on the range of $N_c$ from the latest experimental data for the branching ratios for $\bar{B}^0 \to\rho^0\rho^0$ and $\bar{B}^0 \to\rho^+\rho^-$. We find that the CP violating asymmetry could be very large (even more than 90% for some values of $N_c$). It is shown that the sensitivity of the CP violating asymmetry to $N_c$ is large compared with its smaller sensitivity to the CKM matrix elements. We also discuss the possibility to remove the mod $(\pi)$ ambiguity in the determination of the CP violating phase angle $\alpha$ through the measurement of the CP violating asymmetry in the decay $\bar{B}^0\to \rho^0(\omega)\rho^0(\omega) \to \pi^+\pi^-\pi^+\pi^-$. 
0704.03133	Transverse Polarization of Lambda and Lambda-bar Hyperons in Quasireal  Photoproduction	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:The HERMES Collaboration: A. Airapetian, et al	 Abstract: The HERMES experiment has measured the transverse polarization of Lambda and Lambda-bar hyperons produced inclusively in quasireal photoproduction at a positron beam energy of 27.6 GeV. The transverse polarization of the Lambda hyperon is found to be positive while the observed Lambda-bar polarization is compatible with zero. The transverse polarization values averaged over the kinematic acceptance of HERMES are 0.078 +/- 0.006(stat) +/- 0.012(syst) and -0.025 +/- 0.015(stat) +/- 0.018(syst) for Lambda and Lambda-bar hyperons, respectively. The dependences of Lambda and Lambda-bar polarizations on the fraction $\zeta$ of the beam's light-cone momentum carried by the hyperon and on the hyperon's transverse momentum $p_T$ were investigated. The measured Lambda polarization rises linearly with $p_T$ and exhibits a different behavior for low and high values of $\zeta$, which approximately correspond to the backward and forward regions in the center-of-mass frame of the $\gamma^*N$ reaction. 
0704.03134	A study of global monopole in Lyra geometry	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:F. Rahaman, S.Mal, P. Ghosh	 Abstract: A class of exact static solution around a global monopole resulting from the breaking of a global S0(3) symmetry is obtained in the context of Lyra geometry. Our solution is shown to possess an interesting feature like wormholes space-time. It has been shown that the global monopole exerts no gravitational force on surrounding non-relativistic matter. 
0704.03135	Opposite magnetic polarity of two photospheric lines in single spectrum  of the quiet Sun	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. Rezaei, R. Schlichenmaier, W. Schmidt, O. Steiner (Kiepenheuer-Institut fuer Sonnenphysik, Freiburg, Germany)	 Abstract: We study the structure of the photospheric magnetic field of the quiet Sun by investigating weak spectro-polarimetric signals. We took a sequence of Stokes spectra of the Fe I 630.15 nm and 630.25 nm lines in a region of quiet Sun near the disk center, using the POLIS spectro-polarimeter at the German VTT on Tenerife. The line cores of these two lines form at different heights in the atmosphere. The 3$\sigma$ noise level of the data is about 1.8 $\times 10^{-3} I_{c}$. We present co-temporal and co-spatial Stokes-$V$ profiles of the Fe I 630 nm line pair, where the two lines show opposite polarities in a single spectrum. We compute synthetic line profiles and reproduce these spectra with a two-component model atmosphere: a non-magnetic component and a magnetic component. The magnetic component consists of two magnetic layers with opposite polarity: the upper one moves upwards while the lower one moves downward. In-between, there is a region of enhanced temperature. The Stokes-$V$ line pair of opposite polarity in a single spectrum can be understood as a magnetic reconnection event in the solar photosphere. We demonstrate that such a scenario is realistic, but the solution may not be unique. 
0704.03136	Hidden Symmetry, Excitonic Transitions and Two-Dimensional Kane's  Exciton in the Quantum Well	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:E.M. Kazaryan, L.S. Petrosyan, H.A. Sarkisyan	 Abstract: In this article it is shown that, Sommerfeld's coefficients for excitonic transitions in quantum wells are determined only with the principle quantum number within the framework of two-dimensional Coulomb potential. This is a consequence of hidden symmetry of two-dimensional Coulomb problem, conditioned by the existence of two-dimensional analog of the Runge-Lentz vector. For the narrow gap semiconductor quantum well with the non-parabolic dispersion law of electron and hole in the two-band Kane model it is shown that two-dimensional excitonic states are described in the frames of an analog of Klein-Gordon equation with the two-dimensional Coulomb potential. The non-stability of the ground state of the two-dimensional Kane's exciton is show. 
0704.03137	Scanning magnetoresistance microscopy of atom chips	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:M. Volk, S. Whitlock, B. V. Hall, A. I. Sidorov	 Abstract: Surface based geometries of microfabricated wires or patterned magnetic films can be used to magnetically trap and manipulate ultracold neutral atoms or Bose-Einstein condensates. We investigate the magnetic properties of such atom chips using a scanning magnetoresistive (MR) microscope with high spatial resolution and high field sensitivity. We show that MR sensors are ideally suited to observe small variations of the magnetic field caused by imperfections in the wires or magnetic materials which ultimately lead to fragmentation of ultracold atom clouds. Measurements are also provided for the magnetic field produced by a thin current-carrying wire with small geometric modulations along the edge. Comparisons of our measurements with a full numeric calculation of the current flow in the wire and the subsequent magnetic field show excellent agreement. Our results highlight the use of scanning MR microscopy as a convenient and powerful technique for precisely characterizing the magnetic fields produced near the surface of atom chips. 
0704.03138	Inverse Geometric Approach to the Simulation of the Circular Growth. The  Case of Multicellular Tumor Spheroids	Cell Behavior (q-bio.CB)	Authors:Branislav Brutovsky, Denis Horvath, Vladimir Lisy	 Abstract: We demonstrate the power of the genetic algorithms to construct the cellular automata model simulating the growth of 2-dimensional close-to-circular clusters revealing the desired properties, such as the growth rate and, at the same time, the fractal behavior of their contours. The possible application of the approach in the field of tumor modeling is outlined. 
0704.03139	Element-resolved x-ray ferrimagnetic and ferromagnetic resonance  spectroscopy	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:G. Boero, S. Mouaziz, S. Rusponi, P. Bencok, F. Nolting, S. Stepanow, P. Gambardella	 Abstract: We report on the measurement of element-specific magnetic resonance spectra at gigahertz frequencies using x-ray magnetic circular dichroism (XMCD). We investigate the ferrimagnetic precession of Gd and Fe ions in Gd-substituted Yttrium Iron Garnet, showing that the resonant field and linewidth of Gd precisely coincide with Fe up to the nonlinear regime of parametric excitations. The opposite sign of the Gd x-ray magnetic resonance signal with respect to Fe is consistent with dynamic antiferromagnetic alignment of the two ionic species. Further, we investigate a bilayer metal film, Ni$_{80}$Fe$_{20}$(5 nm)/Ni(50 nm), where the coupled resonance modes of Ni and Ni$_{80}$Fe$_{20}$ are separately resolved, revealing shifts in the resonance fields of individual layers but no mutual driving effects. Energy-dependent dynamic XMCD measurements are introduced, combining x-ray absorption and magnetic resonance spectroscopies. 
0704.03140	Non static cosmic strings in Lyra geometry	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Farook Rahaman	 Abstract: The gravitational field of both local and global non static cosmic strings in the context of Lyra geometry are investigated. Local strings are characterized by having an energy momentum tensor whose only non null components are $T_{tt} = T_{zz}$ . As linearized Einstein equations are formally analogous to the Maxwell equations, the exterior solution does not depend on the radial distribution of the source and hence a Dirac d function was used to approximate the radial distribution of the energy momentum tensor for a local cosmic string along the z-axis: $T_{ab} = \delta(x) \delta(y)diag (\sigma, 0, 0, \sigma) $, $\sigma $being the energy density of the string [A.Vilenkin. Phys.Rep.(1985)121,263]. For a global string, the energy momentum tensor components are calculated from the action density for a complex scalar field y along with a Maxican hat potential. The gravitational field of the global string is shown to be attractive in nature. 
0704.03141	Algorithm for Evaluation of the Interval Power Function of Unconstrained  Arguments	Mathematical Software (cs.MS)	Authors:Evgueni Petrov	 Abstract: We describe an algorithm for evaluation of the interval extension of the power function of variables x and y given by the expression x^y. Our algorithm reduces the general case to the case of non-negative bases. 
0704.03142	A QMA-Complete Translationally Invariant Hamiltonian Problem and the  Complexity of Finding Ground State Energies in Physical Systems	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Alastair Kay	 Abstract: Here we present a problem related to the local Hamiltonian problem (identifying whether the ground state energy falls within one of two ranges) which is restricted to being translationally invariant. We prove that for problems with a fixed local dimension and O(\log(N))-body local terms, or local dimension N and 2-body terms, there are instances of the problem which are QMA-complete. We discuss the implications for the computational complexity of finding ground states of these systems, and hence for any classical approximation techniques that one could apply including DMRG, Matrix Product States and MERA. One important example is a 1D lattice of bosons with nearest-neighbor hopping at constant filling fraction i.e. a generalization of the Bose-Hubbard model. 
0704.03143	Charge redistribution at YBa2Cu3O7-metal interfaces	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Udo Schwingenschloegl, Cosima Schuster	 Abstract: Charge redistribution at interfaces is crucial for electronic applications of high-Tc superconductors, since the band structure is modified on a local scale. We address the normal-state electronic structure of YBa2Cu3O7 (YBCO) at an YBCO-metal contact by first principles calculations for prototypical interface configurations. We derive quantitative results for the intrinsic doping of the superconducting CuO2 planes due to the metal contact. Our findings can be explained in terms of a band-bending mechanism, complemented by local screening effects. We determine a net charge transfer of 0.09 to 0.13 electrons in favour of the intraplane Cu sites, depending on the interface orientation. 
0704.03144	Complex data processing: fast wavelet analysis on the sphere	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Y. Wiaux, J. D. McEwen, P. Vielva	 Abstract: In the general context of complex data processing, this paper reviews a recent practical approach to the continuous wavelet formalism on the sphere. This formalism notably yields a correspondence principle which relates wavelets on the plane and on the sphere. Two fast algorithms are also presented for the analysis of signals on the sphere with steerable wavelets. 
0704.03145	Surgery formula for Seiberg--Witten invariants of negative definite  plumbed 3-manifolds	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Gabor Braun, Andras Nemethi	 Abstract: We derive a cut-and-paste surgery formula of Seiberg--Witten invariants for negative definite plumbed rational homology 3-spheres. It is similar to (and motivated by) Okuma's recursion formula [arXiv:math.AG/0610464, 4.5] targeting analytic invariants of splice quotient singularities. The two formulas combined provide automatically a proof of the equivariant version [arXiv:math.AG/0310084, 5.2(b)] of the `Seiberg--Witten invariant conjecture' [arXiv:math.AG/0111298] for these singularities. 
0704.03146	Enhanced spin-orbit scattering length in narrow Al_xGa_{1-x}N/GaN wires	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:P. Lehnen, Th. Schapers, N. Kaluza, N. Thillosen, H. Hardtdegen	 Abstract: The magnetotransport in a set of identical parallel AlGaN/GaN quantum wire structures was investigated. The width of the wires was ranging between 1110 nm and 340 nm. For all sets of wires clear Shubnikov--de Haas oscillations are observed. We find that the electron concentration and mobility is approximately the same for all wires, confirming that the electron gas in the AlGaN/GaN heterostructure is not deteriorated by the fabrication procedure of the wire structures. For the wider quantum wires the weak antilocalization effect is clearly observed, indicating the presence of spin-orbit coupling. For narrow quantum wires with an effective electrical width below 250 nm the weak antilocalization effect is suppressed. By comparing the experimental data to a theoretical model for quasi one-dimensional structures we come to the conclusion that the spin-orbit scattering length is enhanced in narrow wires. 
0704.03147	Fold cobordisms and stable homotopy groups	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Boldizsar Kalmar	 Abstract: We show that the cobordism groups of negative codimensional folds maps contain direct sums of stable homotopy groups of Thom spaces of vector bundles like the circle and the infinite dimensional projective space. We give geometrical invariants which detect these direct summands. 
0704.03148	The causal boundary of product spacetimes	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:V. Alana, J.L. Flores	 Abstract: The new formulation of the causal completion of spacetimes suggested in [1], and modified later in [2], is tested by computing the causal boundary for product spacetimes of a Lorentz interval and a Riemannian manifold. This is particularized for two important families of spacetimes, conformal to the previous ones: (standard) static spacetimes and Generalized Robertson-Walker spacetimes. As consequence, it is shown that this new approach essentially reproduces the structure of the conformal boundary for multiple classical spacetimes: Reissner-Nordstrom (including Schwarzschild), Anti-de Sitter, Taub and standard cosmological models as de Sitter and Einstein Universe. 
0704.03149	Effects of turbulent diffusion on the chemistry of diffuse clouds	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. Lesaffre, M. Gerin, P. Hennebelle	 Abstract: Aims. We probe the effect of turbulent diffusion on the chemistry at the interface between a cold neutral medium (CNM) cloudlet and the warm neutral medium (WNM). Methods. We perform moving grid, multifluid, 1D, hydrodynamical simulations with chemistry including thermal and chemical diffusion. The diffusion coefficients are enhanced to account for turbulent diffusion. We post-process the steady-states of our simulations with a crude model of radiative transfer to compute line profiles. Results. Turbulent diffusion spreads out the transition region between the CNM and the WNM. We find that the CNM slightly expands and heats up: its CH and H$_2$ content decreases due to the lower density. The change of physical conditions and diffusive transport increase the H$^+$ content in the CNM which results in increased OH and H$_2$O. Diffusion transports some CO out of the CNM. It also brings H$_2$ into contact with the warm gas with enhanced production of CH$^+$, H$_3^+$, OH and H$_2$O at the interface. O lines are sensitive to the spread of the thermal profile in the intermediate region between the CNM and the WNM. Enhanced molecular content at the interface of the cloud broadens the molecular line profiles and helps exciting transitions of intermediate energy. The relative molecular yield are found higher for bigger clouds. Conclusions. Turbulent diffusion can be the source of additional molecular production and should be included in chemical models of the interstellar medium (ISM). It also is a good candidate for the interpretation of observational problems such as warm H$_2$, CH$^+$ formation and presence of H$_3^+$. 
0704.03150	Semi-Regular Variables in the Solar Neighbourhood	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:I. S. Glass, F. van Leeuwen	 Abstract: Period-luminosity sequences have been shown to exist among the Semi-Regular Variables (SRVs) in the Magellanic Clouds (Wood et al, 1999), the Bulge of the Milky Way galaxy (Glass & Schultheis, 2003) and elsewhere. Using modern period and revised Hipparcos parallax data, this paper demonstrates that they also appear among the M-giant SRVs of the Solar Neighbourhood. Their distribution in the K, log P diagram resembles that of Bulge stars more closely than those in the Magellanic Clouds. The prevalence of mass-loss among local M-type SRVs and its dependence on period and spectral sub-type are also discussed. K -- [12], a measure of circumstellar dust emission, increases clearly with V amplitude, M giant sub-type and log P. 
0704.03151	Uniformly continuous maps between ends of R-trees	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Álvaro Martínez Pérez, M. A. Morón	 Abstract: There is a well-known correspondence between infinite trees and ultrametric spaces which can be interpreted as an equivalence of categories and comes from considering the end space of the tree. In this equivalence, uniformly continuous maps between the end spaces are translated to some classes of coarse maps (or even classes of metrically proper lipschitz maps) between the trees. 
0704.03152	Cosmological Casimir effect with maximum planckian momentum and  accelerating universe	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:F. Briscese, A. Marciano	 Abstract: We develop here a mechanism that, without making use of a cosmological constant, reproduces an accelerating universe. This is done by taking into account Casimir vacuum energy density, assuming that the underlying theory allows a maximum momentum, that turns out to be the leading contribution term to Einstein equations in a large expanding FRW universe. As stated in numerous quantum gravity studies, we postulate that maximum momentum is related to the existence of the Planck length as a fundamental length. This insight, together with the assumption of a Planck scale correction to the energy/momentum dispersion-relation on a FRW background, is used here to calculate Casimir vacuum energy. We show that, under these hypothesis, an accelerated universe expansion is obtained. As last step we analyze the compatibility of the resulting model with experimental data, writing down the equation of state for Casimir energy and pressure and observing that this equation of state belongs to a class of models that naturally fits cosmological observations. We emphasize that our result relies, once a fundamental length is introduced in Casimir effect, just on general arguments thus it is independent on an explicit form of the energy-momentum dispersion relation. 
0704.03153	Deviations from Tri-bimaximal Neutrino Mixing in Type-II Seesaw and  Leptogenesis	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Aik Hui Chan, Harald Fritzsch, Shu Luo, Zhi-zhong Xing	 Abstract: Current experimental data allow the zero value for one neutrino mass, either m_1 = 0 or m_3 = 0. This observation implies that a realistic neutrino mass texture can be established by starting from the limit (a) m_1 = m_2 = 0 and m_3 \neq 0 or (b) m_1 = m_2 \neq 0 and m_3 = 0. In both cases, we may introduce a particular perturbation which ensures the resultant neutrino mixing matrix to be the tri-bimaximal mixing pattern or its viable variations with all entries being formed from small integers and their square roots. We find that it is natural to incorporate this kind of neutrino mass matrix in the minimal Type-II seesaw model with only one heavy right-handed Majorana neutrino N in addition to the SU(2)_L Higgs triplet \Delta_L. We show that it is possible to account for the cosmological baryon number asymmetry in the m_3 =0 case via thermal leptogenesis, in which the one-loop vertex correction to N decays is mediated by \Delta_L and the CP-violating asymmetry of N decays is attributed to the electron flavor. 
0704.03154	Supersonic radiatively cooled rotating flows and jets in the laboratory	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D.J. Ampleford (1), S.V. Lebedev (2), A. Ciardi (3), S.N. Bland (2), S.C. Bott (2), G.N. Hall (2), N. Naz (2), C.A. Jennings (1), M. Sherlock (2), J.P. Chittenden (2), J.B.A.Palmer (2), A. Frank (4), E. Blackman (4) ((1) Sandia National Laboratories, USA (2) Imperial College, UK (3) Observatoire de Paris, France (4) Department of Physics and Astronomy, and Laboratory for Laser Energetics, University of Rochester, USA)	 Abstract: The first laboratory astrophysics experiments to produce a radiatively cooled plasma jet with dynamically significant angular momentum are discussed. A new configuration of wire array z-pinch, the twisted conical wire array, is used to produce convergent plasma flows each rotating about the central axis. Collision of the flows produces a standing shock and jet that each have supersonic azimuthal velocities. By varying the twist angle of the array, the rotation velocity of the system can be controlled, with jet rotation velocities reaching ~20% of the propagation velocity. 
0704.03155	Geometrical properties of local dynamics in Hamiltonian systems: the  Generalized Alignment Index (GALI) method	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:Ch. Skokos, T.C. Bountis, Ch. Antonopoulos	 Abstract: We investigate the detailed dynamics of multidimensional Hamiltonian systems by studying the evolution of volume elements formed by unit deviation vectors about their orbits. The behavior of these volumes is strongly influenced by the regular or chaotic nature of the motion, the number of deviation vectors, their linear (in)dependence and the spectrum of Lyapunov exponents. The different time evolution of these volumes can be used to identify rapidly and efficiently the nature of the dynamics, leading to the introduction of quantities that clearly distinguish between chaotic behavior and quasiperiodic motion on $N$-dimensional tori. More specifically we introduce the Generalized Alignment Index of order $k$ (GALI$_k$) as the volume of a generalized parallelepiped, whose edges are $k$ initially linearly independent unit deviation vectors from the studied orbit whose magnitude is normalized to unity at every time step. The GALI$_k$ is a generalization of the Smaller Alignment Index (SALI) (GALI$_2$ $\propto$ SALI). However, GALI$_k$ provides significantly more detailed information on the local dynamics, allows for a faster and clearer distinction between order and chaos than SALI and works even in cases where the SALI method is inconclusive. 
0704.03156	How to clean a dirty floor: Probabilistic potential theory and the  Dobrushin uniqueness theorem	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Thierry de la Rue, Roberto Fernandez, Alan D. Sokal	 Abstract: Motivated by the Dobrushin uniqueness theorem in statistical mechanics, we consider the following situation: Let \alpha be a nonnegative matrix over a finite or countably infinite index set X, and define the "cleaning operators" \beta_h = I_{1-h} + I_h \alpha for h: X \to [0,1] (here I_f denotes the diagonal matrix with entries f). We ask: For which "cleaning sequences" h_1, h_2, ... do we have c \beta_{h_1} ... \beta_{h_n} \to 0 for a suitable class of "dirt vectors" c? We show, under a modest condition on \alpha, that this occurs whenever \sum_i h_i = \infty everywhere on X. More generally, we analyze the cleaning of subsets \Lambda \subseteq X and the final distribution of dirt on the complement of \Lambda. We show that when supp(h_i) \subseteq \Lambda with \sum_i h_i = \infty everywhere on \Lambda, the operators \beta_{h_1} ... \beta_{h_n} converge as n \to \infty to the "balayage operator" \Pi_\Lambda = \sum_{k=0}^\infty (I_\Lambda \alpha)^k I_{\Lambda^c). These results are obtained in two ways: by a fairly simple matrix formalism, and by a more powerful tree formalism that corresponds to working with formal power series in which the matrix elements of \alpha are treated as noncommuting indeterminates. 
0704.03157	Experimenting with recursive queries in database and logic programming  systems	Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)	Authors:Giorgio Terracina, Nicola Leone, Vincenzino Lio, Claudio Panetta	 Abstract: This paper considers the problem of reasoning on massive amounts of (possibly distributed) data. Presently, existing proposals show some limitations: {\em (i)} the quantity of data that can be handled contemporarily is limited, due to the fact that reasoning is generally carried out in main-memory; {\em (ii)} the interaction with external (and independent) DBMSs is not trivial and, in several cases, not allowed at all; {\em (iii)} the efficiency of present implementations is still not sufficient for their utilization in complex reasoning tasks involving massive amounts of data. This paper provides a contribution in this setting; it presents a new system, called DLV$^{DB}$, which aims to solve these problems. Moreover, the paper reports the results of a thorough experimental analysis we have carried out for comparing our system with several state-of-the-art systems (both logic and databases) on some classical deductive problems; the other tested systems are: LDL++, XSB, Smodels and three top-level commercial DBMSs. DLV$^{DB}$ significantly outperforms even the commercial Database Systems on recursive queries. To appear in Theory and Practice of Logic Programming (TPLP) 
0704.03158	Cosmological applications of a wavelet analysis on the sphere	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. D. McEwen, P. Vielva, Y. Wiaux, R. B. Barreiro, L. Cayon, M. P. Hobson, A. N. Lasenby, E. Martinez-Gonzalez, J. L. Sanz	 Abstract: The cosmic microwave background (CMB) is a relic radiation of the Big Bang and as such it contains a wealth of cosmological information. Statistical analyses of the CMB, in conjunction with other cosmological observables, represent some of the most powerful techniques available to cosmologists for placing strong constraints on the cosmological parameters that describe the origin, content and evolution of the Universe. The last decade has witnessed the introduction of wavelet analyses in cosmology and, in particular, their application to the CMB. We review here spherical wavelet analyses of the CMB that test the standard cosmological concordance model. The assumption that the temperature anisotropies of the CMB are a realisation of a statistically isotropic Gaussian random field on the sphere is questioned. Deviations from both statistical isotropy and Gaussianity are detected in the reviewed works, suggesting more exotic cosmological models may be required to explain our Universe. We also review spherical wavelet analyses that independently provide evidence for dark energy, an exotic component of our Universe of which we know very little currently. The effectiveness of accounting correctly for the geometry of the sphere in the wavelet analysis of full-sky CMB data is demonstrated by the highly significant detections of physical processes and effects that are made in these reviewed works. 
0704.03159	Mass Loss and Evolution of Stars and Star Clusters: a Personal  Historical Perspective	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Henny J.G.L.M. Lamers	 Abstract: The development and progress of the studies of winds and mass loss from hot stars, from about 1965 up to now, is discussed in a personal historical perspective. The present state of knowledge about stellar winds, based on papers presented at this workshop, is described. About ten years ago the mechanisms of the winds were reasonably well understood, the mass loss rates were known, and the predictions of stellar evolution theory with mass loss agreed with observations. However, recent studies especially those based on FUSE observations, have resulted in a significant reduction of the mass loss rates, that disagrees with predictions from radiation driven wind models. The situation is discussed and future studies that can clarify the situation are suggested. I also discuss what is known about the dissolution of star clusters in different environments. The dissolution time can be derived from the mass and age distributions of cluster samples. The resulting dissolution times of clusters in the solar neighborhood (SN) and in interacting galaxies are shorter than predicted by two-body relaxation of clusters in a tidal field. Encounters with giant molecular clouds can explain the fate of clusters in the SN and are the most likely cause of the short lifetime of clusters in interacting galaxies. 
0704.03160	New Form of the T-Duality Due to the Stability of a Compact Dimension	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Davoud Kamani	 Abstract: We study behaviors of a compact dimension and the $T$-duality, in the presence of the wrapped closed bosonic strings. When the closed strings interact and form another system of strings, the radius of compactification increases. This modifies the $T$-duality, which we call it as $T$-duality-like. Some effects of the $T$-duality-like will be studied. 
0704.03161	van der Waals-like phase separation instability of a driven granular gas  in three dimensions	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Rui Liu, Yinchang Li, Meiying Hou, Baruch Meerson	 Abstract: We show that the van der Waals-like phase separation instability of a driven granular gas at zero gravity, previously investigated in two-dimensional settings, persists in three dimensions. We consider a monodisperse granular gas driven by a thermal wall of a three-dimensional rectangular container at zero gravity. The basic steady state of this system, as described by granular hydrodynamic equations, involves a denser and colder layer of granulate located at the wall opposite to the driving wall. When the inelastic energy loss is sufficiently high, the driven granular gas exhibits, in some range of average densities, negative compressibility in the directions parallel to the driving wall. When the lateral dimensions of the container are sufficiently large, the negative compressibility causes spontaneous symmetry breaking of the basic steady state and a phase separation instability. Event-driven molecular dynamics simulations confirm and complement our theoretical predictions. 
0704.03162	Neutrino transport and hydrodynamic stability of rotating proto-neutron  stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:V.Urpin	 Abstract: We consider stability of differentially rotating non-magnetic proto-neutron stars. When neutrino transport is efficient, the star can be subject to a diffusive instability that can occur even in the convectively stable region. The instability arises on the time-scale comparable to the time-scale of thermal diffusion. Hydrodynamic motions driven by the instability can lead to anisotropy in the neutrino flux since the instability is suppressed near the equator and rotation axis. 
0704.03163	Severi varieties and self rational maps of K3 surfaces	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Thomas Dedieu	 Abstract: Self-rational maps of generic algebraic K3 surfaces are conjectured to be trivial. We relate this conjecture to a conjecture concerning the irreducibility of the universal Severi varieties parametrizing nodal curves of given genus and degree lying on some K3 surface. We also establish a number of numerical constraints satisfied by such non trivial rational maps, that is of topological degree >1. 
0704.03164	A dual lagrangian for non-Abelian tensor gauge fields	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Jessica K. Barrett, George Savvidy	 Abstract: For non-Abelian tensor gauge fields of the lower rank we have found an alternative expression for the field strength tensors, which transform homogeneously with respect to the complementary gauge transformations and allow us to construct the dual Lagrangian. 
0704.03165	Graphene Spin Valve Devices	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:E. W. Hill, A. K. Geim, K. Novoselov, F. Schedin, P. Blake	 Abstract: Graphene - a single atomic layer of graphite - is a recently-found two-dimensional form of carbon, which exhibits high crystal quality and ballistic electron transport at room temperature. Soft magnetic NiFe electrodes have been used to inject polarized spins into graphene and a 10% change in resistance has been observed as the electrodes switch from the parallel to the antiparallel state. This coupled with the fact that a field effect electrode can modulate the conductivity of these graphene films makes them exciting potential candidates for spin electronic devices. 
0704.03166	XMM-Newton observations of Nova Sgr 1998	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Hernanz (IEEC/Csic), G. Sala (MPE)	 Abstract: We report on X-ray observations of Nova Sagittarius 1998 (V4633 Sgr), performed with XMM-Newton at three different epochs, 934, 1083 and 1265 days after discovery. The nova was detected with the EPIC cameras at all three epochs, with emission spanning the whole energy range from 0.2 to 10 keV. The X-ray spectra do not change significantly at the different epochs, and are well fitted for the first and third observations with a multi-temperature optically thin thermal plasma, while lower statistics in the second observations lead to a poorer fit. The thermal plasma emission is most probably originated in the shock heated ejecta, with chemical composition similar to that of a CO nova. However, we can not completely rule out reestablished accretion as the origin of the emission. We also obtain upper limits for the temperature and luminosity of a potential white dwarf atmospheric component, and conclude that hydrogen burning had already turned-off by the time of our observations. 
0704.03167	The Goldberger-Miyazawa-Oehme sum rule revisited	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:V.V. Abaev, P. Metsä, M.E. Sainio	 Abstract: The Goldberger-Miyazawa-Oehme sum rule is used to extract the pion-nucleon coupling constant from experimental $\pi$N information. Chiral perturbation theory is exploited in relating the pionic hydrogen s-wave level shift and width results to the appropriate scattering lengths. The deduced value for the coupling is $f^2 = 0.075 \pm 0.002$, where the largest source of uncertainty is the determination of the s-wave $\pi^- p$ scattering length from the atomic level shift measurement. 
0704.03168	Detection of superhumps in the VY Scl-type nova-like variable KR Aur	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:V. P. Kozhevnikov (Ural State University, Russia)	 Abstract: We report on detection of negative superhumps in KR Aur which is the representative member of the VY Scl stars. The observations were obtained with the multi-channel photometer during 107 h. The analysis of the data clearly revealed brightness variations with a period of 3.771 +/- 0.005 h. This is 3.5 per cent less than the orbital period, suggesting it is a negative superhump. Negative superhumps in VY Scl stars are widely spread. The discovery of powerful soft X-rays from V751 Cyg demonstrates that VY Scl stars may contain white dwarfs, at which nuclear burning of the accreted material occur. If this suspicion is correct, we then can suppose that the powerful radiation emerging from the white dwarf may cause the tilt of the accretion disk to the orbital plane, and its retrograde precession may produce negative superhumps in VY Scl stars. 
0704.03169	Grafting hyperbolic metrics and Eisenstein series	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Kunio Obitsu, Scott A. Wolpert	 Abstract: The family hyperbolic metric for the plumbing variety $\{zw=t\}$ and the non holomorphic Eisenstein series $E(\zeta;2)$ are combined to provide an explicit expansion for the hyperbolic metrics for degenerating families of Riemann surfaces. Applications include an asymptotic expansion for the Weil-Petersson metric and a local form of symplectic reduction. 
0704.03170	Zipf's law and city sizes: A short tutorial review on multiplicative  processes in urban growth	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Damian H. Zanette	 Abstract: We address the role of multiplicative stochastic processes in modeling the occurrence of power-law city size distributions. As an explanation of the result of Zipf's rank analysis, Simon's model is presented in a mathematically elementary way, with a thorough discussion of the involved hypotheses. Emphasis is put on the flexibility of the model, as to its possible extensions and the relaxation of some strong assumptions. We point out some open problems regarding the prediction of the detailed shape of Zipf's rank plots, which may be tackled by means of such extensions. 
0704.03171	The origin of X-ray emission from T Tauri stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Thomas Preibisch	 Abstract: Several aspects concerning the origin of the very strong X-ray activity of T Tauri Stars (TTS) are still not well understood. Important new insight came recently from the Chandra Orion Ultradeep Project (COUP), a unique 10-day long Chandra observation of the Orion Nebula Cluster, and the XMM-Newton Extended Survey of the Taurus Molecular Cloud (XEST). Based mainly on the results of these two large projects, I will discuss our current knowledge about the location of the X-ray emitting structures in TTS, the nature of their coronal magnetic fields, inferences for pre-main-sequence magnetic dynamos, and the relation between accretion processes and X-ray emission. 
0704.03172	Force induced conformational transition in a system of interacting stiff  polymer: Application to unfolding	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Sanjay Kumar, Debaprasad Giri	 Abstract: We consider a stiff polymer chain in poor solvent and apply a force at one end of the chain. We find that by varying the stiffness parameter, polymer undergoes a transition from the globule state to the folded like state. The conformation of folded state mimics the $\beta$-sheet as seen in titin molecule. Using exact enumeration technique, we study the extension-force and force-temperature diagrams of such a system. Force-temperature diagram shows the re-entrance behaviour for flexible chain. However, for stiff chain this re-entrance behaviour is absent and there is an enhancement in $\theta$-temperature with the rise of stiffness. We further propose that the internal information about the frozen structure of polymer can be read from the distribution of end-to-end distance which shows saw-tooth like behaviour. 
0704.03173	A Critical Phenomenon in Solitonic Ising Chains	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Igor M. Loutsenko, Vyacheslav P. Spiridonov	 Abstract: We discuss a phase transition of the second order taking place in non-local 1D Ising chains generated by specific infinite soliton solutions of the KdV and BKP equations. 
0704.03174	A new chaotic attractor in a basic multi-strain epidemiological model  with temporary cross-immunity	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:Maíra Aguiar, Nico Stollenwerk	 Abstract: An epidemic multi-strain model with temporary cross-immunity shows chaos, even in a previously unexpected parameter region. Especially dengue fever models with strong enhanced infectivity on secondary infection have previously shown deterministic chaos motivated by experimental findings of antibody-dependent-enhancement (ADE). Including temporary cross-immunity in such models, which is common knowledge among field researchers in dengue, we find a deterministically chaotic attractor in the more realistic parameter region of reduced infectivity on secondary infection (''inverse ADE'' parameter region). This is realistic for dengue fever since on second infection people are more likely to be hospitalized, hence do not contribute to the force of infection as much as people with first infection. Our finding has wider implications beyond dengue in any multi-strain epidemiological systems with altered infectivity upon secondary infection, since we can relax the condition of rather high infectivity on secondary infection previously required for deterministic chaos. For dengue the finding of wide ranges of chaotic attractors open new ways to analysis of existing data sets. 
0704.03175	Effects of Eye-phase in DNA unzipping	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Debaprasad Giri, Sanjay Kumar	 Abstract: The onset of an "eye-phase" and its role during the DNA unzipping is studied when a force is applied to the interior of the chain. The directionality of the hydrogen bond introduced here shows oscillations in force-extension curve similar to a "saw-tooth" kind of oscillations seen in the protein unfolding experiments. The effects of intermediates (hairpins) and stacking energies on the melting profile have also been discussed. 
0704.03176	The contact process in disordered and periodic binary two-dimensional  lattices	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:S.V. Fallert, Y.M. Kim, C.J. Neugebauer, S.N. Taraskin	 Abstract: The critical behavior of the contact process in disordered and periodic binary 2d-lattices is investigated numerically by means of Monte Carlo simulations as well as via an analytical approximation and standard mean field theory. Phase-separation lines calculated numerically are found to agree well with analytical predictions around the homogeneous point. For the disordered case, values of static scaling exponents obtained via quasi-stationary simulations are found to change with disorder strength. In particular, the finite-size scaling exponent of the density of infected sites approaches a value consistent with the existence of an infinite-randomness fixed point as conjectured before for the 2d disordered CP. At the same time, both dynamical and static scaling exponents are found to coincide with the values established for the homogeneous case thus confirming that the contact process in a heterogeneous environment belongs to the directed percolation universality class. 
0704.03177	Computing modular polynomials in quasi-linear time	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Andreas Enge (INRIA Futurs)	 Abstract: We analyse and compare the complexity of several algorithms for computing modular polynomials. We show that an algorithm relying on floating point evaluation of modular functions and on interpolation, which has received little attention in the literature, has a complexity that is essentially (up to logarithmic factors) linear in the size of the computed polynomials. In particular, it obtains the classical modular polynomials $\Phi_\ell$ of prime level $\ell$ in time O (\ell^3 \log^4 \ell \log \log \ell). Besides treating modular polynomials for $\Gamma^0 (\ell)$, which are an important ingredient in many algorithms dealing with isogenies of elliptic curves, the algorithm is easily adapted to more general situations. Composite levels are handled just as easily as prime levels, as well as polynomials between a modular function and its transform of prime level, such as the Schl\"afli polynomials and their generalisations. Our distributed implementation of the algorithm confirms the theoretical analysis by computing modular equations of record level around 10000 in less than two weeks on ten processors. 
0704.03178	Beauty production using D* + mu and mu+ mu- correlations at ZEUS	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:A.E. Nuncio Quiroz (on behalf of the ZEUS Collaboration)	 Abstract: Events with observed D* and/or muons in the final state were used to indicate the presence of beauty quark production and to study the correlations between the particles coming from the same or different B-hadrons. The Next-to-Leading Order (NLO) theoretical predictions for such processes were often available only at parton level. A method to calculate visible level cross sections at NLO, based on an interface of the FMNR program to PYTHIA 6.2, is applied. It uses the NLO description at b-quark level provided by FMNR applying a statistical reduction procedure (REDSTAT) that allows the link to PYTHIA, from where the description of the B-hadron decay chain is obtained. Comparisons of the data and NLO cross sections at visible and b-quark level were found to be consistent and equivalent. 
0704.03179	Measurement-induced manipulation of the quantum-classical border	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:S. Maniscalco, J. Piilo, K.-A. Suominen	 Abstract: We demonstrate the possibility of controlling the border between the quantum and the classical world by performing nonselective measurements on quantum systems. We consider a quantum harmonic oscillator initially prepared in a Schroedinger cat state and interacting with its environment. We show that the environment induced decoherence transforming the cat state into a statistical mixture can be strongly inhibited by means of appropriate sequences of measurements. 
0704.03180	Soft-collinear effects in prompt photon production	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Rahul Basu (IMSc), Eric Laenen (NIKHEF), Anuradha Misra (Mumbai U.), Patrick Motylinski (NIKHEF)	 Abstract: We extend next-to-leading logarithmic threshold and joint resummation for prompt photon production to include leading collinear effects. The impact of these effects is assessed for both fixed-target and collider kinematics. We find them in general to be small, but noticeable. 
0704.03181	Confining ensemble of dyons	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Dmitri Diakonov, Victor Petrov (St. Petersburg NPI)	 Abstract: We construct the integration measure over the moduli space of an arbitrary number of N kinds of dyons of the pure SU(N) gauge theory at finite temperatures. The ensemble of dyons governed by the measure is mathematically described by a (supersymmetric) quantum field theory that is exactly solvable and is remarkable for a number of striking features: 1) The free energy has the minimum corresponding to the zero average Polyakov line, as expected in the confining phase; 2)The correlation function of two Polyakov lines exhibits a linear potential between static quarks in any N-ality non-zero representation, with a calculable string tension roughly independent of temperature; 3) The average spatial Wilson loop falls off exponentially with its area and the same string tension; 4) At a critical temperature the ensemble of dyons rearranges and de-confines; 5)The estimated ratio of the critical temperature to the square root of the string tension is in excellent agreement with the lattice data. 
0704.03182	Python for Education: Computational Methods for Nonlinear Systems	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:Christopher R. Myers, James. P. Sethna	 Abstract: We describe a novel, interdisciplinary, computational methods course that uses Python and associated numerical and visualization libraries to enable students to implement simulations for a number of different course modules. Problems in complex networks, biomechanics, pattern formation, and gene regulation are highlighted to illustrate the breadth and flexibility of Python-powered computational environments. 
0704.03183	Exact fuzzy sphere thermodynamics in matrix quantum mechanics	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Naoyuki Kawahara (KEK), Jun Nishimura (KEK, SOKENDAI), Shingo Takeuchi (SOKENDAI)	 Abstract: We study thermodynamical properties of a fuzzy sphere in matrix quantum mechanics of the BFSS type including the Chern-Simons term. Various quantities are calculated to all orders in perturbation theory exploiting the one-loop saturation of the effective action in the large-N limit. The fuzzy sphere becomes unstable at sufficiently strong coupling, and the critical point is obtained explicitly as a function of the temperature. The whole phase diagram is investigated by Monte Carlo simulation. Above the critical point, we obtain perfect agreement with the all order results. In the region below the critical point, which is not accessible by perturbation theory, we observe the Hagedorn transition. In the high temperature limit our model is equivalent to a totally reduced model, and the relationship to previously known results is clarified. 
0704.03184	Kerr-Schild Photonlike Metric Solutions	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Alexander Burinskii	 Abstract: The charged and spinning lightlike solutions are obtained in the Kerr-Schild formalism. In particular, one of them may be considered as an ultrarelativistic boost of the Kerr-Newman solution along the direction of angular momentum. The Kerr singular ring disappears, however, there remains a finite parameter $a$ which determines spin by the Kerr relation $J=ma$. By $J=\hbar$, the parameter $a$ is de Broglie wavelength of the corresponding photon. Electromagnetic field is aligned to the Kerr null congruence. Some of the presented solutions contain singular beam pulse (pp-strings) like the considered recently `gyratons'. 
0704.03185	Relativistic self-consistent-field calculations of the hyperfine  structure in the 4d-shell ions	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:Jonas R. Persson	 Abstract: Relativistic self-consistent-field calculations of the radial hyperfine integrals have been performed in the 4d-shell element ions. The comparison with available experimental results gives an estimate of configuration interaction effects in the hyperfine interaction in these ions. The results can also be used to derive nuclear moments from laserspectroscopic measurements of radioactive isotopes. PACS Numbers: 31.15.Ne, 31.30.Gs, 32.10.Fn 
0704.03186	On the dynamical mass generation in confining Yang-Mills theories	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:S.P. Sorella	 Abstract: The dynamical mass generation for gluons is discussed in Euclidean Yang-Mills theories supplemented with a renormalizable mass term. The mass parameter is not free, being determined in a self-consistent way through a gap equation which obeys the renormalization group. The example of the Landau gauge is worked out explicitly at one loop order. A few remarks on the issue of the unitarity are provided. 
0704.03187	The building up of the disk galaxy M33 and the evolution of the  metallicity gradient	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Laura Magrini, Edvige Corbelli, Daniele Galli	 Abstract: The evolution of radial gradients of metallicity in disk galaxies and its relation with the disk formation are not well understood. Theoretical models of galactic chemical evolution make contrasting predictions about the time evolution of metallicity gradients. To test chemical evolution models and trace the star formation and accretion history of low luminosity disk galaxies we focus on the Local Group galaxy M33. We analyze O/H and S/H abundances in planetary nebulae, H{\sc ii} regions, and young stars, together with known [Fe/H] abundances in the old stellar population of M33. With a theoretical model, we follow the time evolution of gas (diffuse and condensed in clouds), stars, and chemical abundances in the disk of M33, assuming that the galaxy is accreting gas from an external reservoir. Our model is able to reproduce the available observational constraints on the distribution of gas and stars in M33 and to predict the time evolution of several chemical abundances. In particular, we find that a model characterized by a continuous infall of gas on the disk, at a rate of $\dot M_{\rm inf}\approx 1$ $M_\odot$ yr$^{-1}$, almost constant with time, can also account for the relatively high rate of star formation and for the shallow chemical gradients. Supported by a large sample of high resolution observations for this nearby galaxy, we conclude that the metallicity in the disk of M33 has increased with time at all radii, with a continuous flattening of the gradient over the last $\sim 8$ Gyr. 
0704.03188	The Ionization Fraction of Barnard 68: Implications for Star and Planet  Formation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Sebastien Maret, Edwin A. Bergin	 Abstract: We present a detailed study of the ionization fraction of the Barnard 68 pre-stellar core, using millimeter H13CO+ and DCO+ lines observations. These observations are compared to the predictions of a radiative transfer model coupled to a chemical network that includes depletion on grains and gas phase deuterium fractionation. Together with previous observations and modelling of CO and isotopologues, our H13CO+ and DCO+ observations and modelling allow to place constraints on the metal abundance and the cosmic ionization rate. The H13CO+ emission is well reproduced for metals abundances lower than 3e-9 and a standard cosmic ray ionization rate. However, the observations are also consistent with a complete depletion of metals, i.e. with cosmic rays as the only source of ionization at visual extinctions greater than a few Av . The DCO+ emission is found to be dependent of the ortho to para H2 ratio, and indicates a ratio of ~1e-2. The derived ionization fraction is about 5e-9 with respect to H nuclei, which is about an order of magnitude lower than the one observed in the L1544 core. The corresponding ambipolar diffusion timescale is found to be an order of magnitude larger than the free fall timescale at the center of the core. The inferred metal abundance suggests that magnetically inactive regions (dead zones) are present in protostellar disks. 
0704.03189	II. The mass gap and solution of the quark confinement problem in QCD	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:V. Gogokhia	 Abstract: We have investigated a closed system of equations for the quark propagator, obtained earlier within our general approach to QCD at low energies. It implies quark confinement (the quark propagator has no pole, indeed), as well as the dynamical breakdown of chiral symmetry (a chiral symmetry preserving solution is forbidded). This system can be solved exactly in the chiral limit. We have established the space of the smooth test functions (consisting of the Green's functions for the quark propagator and the corresponding quark-gluon vertex) in which our generalized function (the confining gluon propagator) becomes a continuous linear functional. It is a linear topological space $K(c)$ of the infinitely differentiable functions (with respect to the dimensionless momentum variable $x$), having compact support in the region $x \leq c$. We develop an analytical formalism, the so-called chiral perturbtion theory at the fundamental quark level, which allows one to find explicit solution for the quark propagator in powers of the light quark masses. We also develop an analytical formalism, which allows one to find the solution for the quark propagator in the inverse powers of the heavy quark masses. It justifies the use for the heavy quark propagator its free counterpart up to terms of the order $1/m_Q^3$, where $m_Q$ is the heavy quark mass. So this solution automatically possesses the heavy quark spin-flavor symmetry. 
0704.03190	MICS Asia Phase II - Sensitivity to the aerosol module	Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics (physics.ao-ph)	Authors:Karine Sartelet (CEREA), Hiroshi Hayami (CRIEPI), Bruno Sportisse (CEREA)	 Abstract: In the framework of the model inter-comparison study - Asia Phase II (MICS2), where eight models are compared over East Asia, this paper studies the influence of different parameterizations used in the aerosol module on the aerosol concentrations of sulfate and nitrate in PM10. An intracomparison of aerosol concentrations is done for March 2001 using different configurations of the aerosol module of one of the model used for the intercomparison. Single modifications of a reference setup for model configurations are performed and compared to a reference case. These modifications concern the size distribution, i.e. the number of sections, and physical processes, i.e. coagulation, condensation/evaporation, cloud chemistry, heterogeneous reactions and sea-salt emissions. Comparing monthly averaged concentrations at different stations, the importance of each parameterization is first assessed. It is found that sulfate concentrations are little sensitive to sea-salt emissions and to whether condensation is computed dynamically or by assuming thermodynamic equilibrium. Nitrate concentrations are little sensitive to cloud chemistry. However, a very high sensitivity to heterogeneous reactions is observed. Thereafter, the variability of the aerosol concentrations to the use of different chemistry transport models (CTMs) and the variability to the use of different parameterizations in the aerosol module are compared. For sulfate, the variability to the use of different parameterizations in the aerosol module is lower than the variability to the use of different CTMs. However, for nitrate, for monthly averaged concentrations averaged over four stations, these two variabilities have the same order of magnitude. 
0704.03191	GRB 050410 and GRB 050412: are they really dark GRBs?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T.Mineo, V.Mangano, S.Covino, G.Cusumano, V.La Parola, E.Troja, P.Roming, D.N.Burrows, S.Campana, M.Capalbi, G.Chincarini, N.Gehrels, P.Giommi, J.E.Hill, F.Marshall, A.Moretti, P.O'Brien, M.Page, M.Perri, P.Romano, B.Sbarufatti, G.Sato, G.Tagliaferri	 Abstract: We present a detailed analysis of the prompt and afterglow emission of GRB 050410 and GRB 050412 detected by Swift for which no optical counterpart was observed. The 15-150 keV energy distribution of the GRB 050410 prompt emission shows a peak energy at 53 keV. The XRT light curve of this GRB decays as a power law with a slope of alpha=1.06+/-0.04. The spectrum is well reproduced by an absorbed power law with a spectral index Gamma_x=2.4+/-0.4 and a low energy absorption N_H=4(+3;-2)x10^21 cm^(-2) which is higher than the Galactic value. The 15-150 keV prompt emission in GRB 050412 is modelled with a hard (Gamma=0.7+/-0.2) power law. The XRT light curve follows a broken power law with the first slope alpha_1=0.7+/-0.4, the break time T_break=254(-41;+79) s and the second slope alpha_2=2.8(-0.8;+0.5). The spectrum is fitted by a power law with spectral index Gamma_x=1.3+/-0.2 which is absorbed at low energies by the Galactic column. The GRB 050410 afterglow reveals the expected characteristics of the third component of the canonical Swift light curve. Conversely, a complex phenomenology was detected in the GRB 050412 because of the presence of the very early break. The light curve in this case can be interpreted as being the last peak of the prompt emission. The two bursts present tight upper limits for the optical emission, however, neither of them can be clearly classified as dark. For GRB 050410, the suppression of the optical afterglow could be attributed to a low density interstellar medium surrounding the burst. For GRB 050412, the evaluation of the darkness is more difficult due to the ambiguity in the extrapolation of the X-ray afterglow light curve. 
0704.03192	Deriving temperature, mass and age of evolved stars from high-resolution  spectra. Application to field stars and the open cluster IC 4651	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K. Biazzo (1,2), L. Pasquini (2), L. Girardi (3), A. Frasca (1), L. da Silva (4), J. Setiawan (5), E. Marilli (1), A. P. Hatzes (6), S. Catalano (1),  ((1) INAF-OACt, (2) ESO-Garching, (3) INAF-OAPd, (4) ON/MCT, (5) MPIA-Heidelberg, (6) TLS)	 Abstract: We test our capability of deriving stellar physical parameters of giant stars by analysing a sample of field stars and the well studied open cluster IC 4651 with different spectroscopic methods. The use of a technique based on line-depth ratios (LDRs) allows us to determine with high precision the effective temperature of the stars and to compare the results with those obtained with a classical LTE abundance analysis. (i) For the field stars we find that the temperatures derived by means of the LDR method are in excellent agreement with those found by the spectral synthesis. This result is extremely encouraging because it shows that spectra can be used to firmly derive population characteristics (e.g., mass and age) of the observed stars. (ii) For the IC 4651 stars we use the determined effective temperature to derive the following results. a) The reddening E(B-V) of the cluster is 0.12+/-0.02, largely independent of the color-temperature calibration used. b) The age of the cluster is 1.2+/-0.2 Gyr. c) The typical mass of the analysed giant stars is 2.0+/-0.2M_sun. Moreover, we find a systematic difference of about 0.2 dex in log g between spectroscopic and evolutionary values. We conclude that, in spite of known limitations, a classical spectroscopic analysis of giant stars may indeed result in very reliable stellar parameters. We caution that the quality of the agreement, on the other hand, depends on the details of the adopted spectroscopic analysis. 
0704.03193	A Rational Method for Probing Macromolecules Dissociation: The  Antibody-Hapten System	Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)	Authors:Elsa S. Henriques, Andrey V. Solov'yov	 Abstract: The unbinding process of a protein-ligand complex of major biological interest was investigated by means of a computational approach at atomistic classical mechanical level. An energy minimisation-based technique was used to determine the dissociation paths of the system by probing only a relevant set of generalized coordinates. The complex problem was reduced to a low-dimensional scanning along a selected distance between the protein and the ligand. Orientational coordinates of the escaping fragment (the ligand) were also assessed in order to further characterise the unbinding. Solvent effects were accounted for by means of the Poisson--Boltzmann continuum model. The corresponding dissociation time was derived from the calculated barrier height, in compliance with the experimentally reported Arrhenius-like behaviour. The computed results are in good agreement with the available experimental data. 
0704.03194	L^2 harmonics forms on non compact manifolds	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Gilles Carron (LMJL)	 Abstract: The source of these notes is a series of lectures given at the CIMPA's summer school "Recent Topics in Geometric Analysis". 
0704.03195	Particle Interpretations of the PVLAS Data	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Andreas Ringwald (DESY)	 Abstract: Recently the PVLAS collaboration reported the observation of a rotation of linearly polarized laser light induced by a transverse magnetic field -- a signal being unexpected within standard QED. In this review, we emphasize two mechanisms which have been proposed to explain this result: production of a single light neutral spin-zero particle or pair production of light minicharged particles. We discuss a class of models, involving, in addition to our familiar ``visible'' photon, further light ``hidden paraphotons'', which mix kinematically with the visible one, and further light paracharged particles. In these models, very strong astrophysical and cosmological bounds on the weakly interacting light particles mentioned above can be evaded. In the upcoming year, a number of decisive laboratory based tests of the particle interpretation of the PVLAS anomaly will be done. More generally, such experiments, exploiting high fluxes of low-energy photons and/or large electromagnetic fields, will dig into previously unconstrained parameter space of the above mentioned models. 
0704.03196	Distributed Gaussian polynomials as q-oscillator eigenfunctions	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Hasan Karabulut	 Abstract: Karabulut and Sibert (\textit{J. Math. Phys}. \textbf{38} (9), 4815 (1997)) have constructed an orthogonal set of functions from linear combinations of equally spaced Gaussians. In this paper we show that they are actually eigenfunctions of a q-oscillator in coordinate representation. We also reinterpret the coordinate representation example of q-oscillator given by Macfarlane as the functions orthogonal with respect to an unusual inner product definition. It is shown that the eigenfunctions in both q-oscillator examples are infinitely degenerate. 
0704.03197	Euclidean Shortest Paths in Simple Cube Curves at a Glance	Computational Geometry (cs.CG)	Authors:Fajie Li, Reinhard Klette	 Abstract: This paper reports about the development of two provably correct approximate algorithms which calculate the Euclidean shortest path (ESP) within a given cube-curve with arbitrary accuracy, defined by $\epsilon >0$, and in time complexity $\kappa(\epsilon) \cdot {\cal O}(n)$, where $\kappa(\epsilon)$ is the length difference between the path used for initialization and the minimum-length path, divided by $\epsilon$. A run-time diagram also illustrates this linear-time behavior of the implemented ESP algorithm. 
0704.03198	Imaginary-time formulation of steady-state nonequilibrium: application  to strongly correlated transport	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:J. E. Han, R. J. Heary	 Abstract: We extend the imaginary-time formulation of the equilibrium quantum many-body theory to steady-state nonequilibrium with an application to strongly correlated transport. By introducing Matsubara voltage, we keep the finite chemical potential shifts in the Fermi-Dirac function, in agreement with the Keldysh formulation. The formulation is applied to strongly correlated transport in the Kondo regime using the quantum Monte Carlo method. 
0704.03199	Generalized Stability Condition for Generalized and Doubly-Generalized  LDPC Codes	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:E. Paolini, M. Fossorier, M. Chiani	 Abstract: In this paper, the stability condition for low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes on the binary erasure channel (BEC) is extended to generalized LDPC (GLDPC) codes and doublygeneralized LDPC (D-GLDPC) codes. It is proved that, in both cases, the stability condition only involves the component codes with minimum distance 2. The stability condition for GLDPC codes is always expressed as an upper bound to the decoding threshold. This is not possible for D-GLDPC codes, unless all the generalized variable nodes have minimum distance at least 3. Furthermore, a condition called derivative matching is defined in the paper. This condition is sufficient for a GLDPC or DGLDPC code to achieve the stability condition with equality. If this condition is satisfied, the threshold of D-GLDPC codes (whose generalized variable nodes have all minimum distance at least 3) and GLDPC codes can be expressed in closed form. 
0704.03200	Rigidity-dependent cosmic ray energy spectra in the knee region obtained  with the GAMMA experiment	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. P. Garyaka, R. M. Martirosov, S. V. Ter-Antonyan, N. Nikolskaya, Y. A. Gallant, L. Jones, J. Procureur	 Abstract: On the basis of the extensive air shower (EAS) data obtained by the GAMMA experiment, the energy spectra and elemental composition of the primary cosmic rays are derived in the 1-100 PeV energy range. The reconstruction of the primary energy spectra is carried out using an EAS inverse approach in the framework of the SIBYLL2.1 and QGSJET01 interaction models and the hypothesis of power-law primary energy spectra with rigidity-dependent knees. The energy spectra of primary H, He, O-like and Fe-like nuclei obtained with the SIBYLL interaction model agree with corresponding extrapolations of the balloon and satellite data to ~1 PeV energies. The energy spectra obtained from the QGSJET model show a predominantly proton composition in the knee region. The rigidity-dependent knee feature of the primary energy spectra for each interaction model is displayed at the following rigidities: ~2.5+/-0.2 PV (SIBYLL) and ~3.1-4.2 PV (QGSJET). All the results presented are derived taking into account the detector response, the reconstruction uncertainties of the EAS parameters, and fluctuations in the EAS development. 
0704.03201	Assisted chaotic inflation in brane-world cosmology	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Grigoris Panotopoulos	 Abstract: Assisted chaotic inflation in brane cosmology is discussed. We work in the framework of Randall-Sundrum (RS) II model, in which adopting the RS condition the only parameter is the five-dimensional Planck mass. Using the scalar spectral index and the amplitude of scalar perturbations we determine both the mass of the scalar fields responsible for inflation and the fundamental Planck mass of the higher-dimensional theory. We find that the mass of the scalars has the typical value of the inflaton mass in chaotic inflation ($M_I \sim 10^{13}$ GeV) and that the five-dimensional Planck mass is very close to the GUT (Grand Unified Theories) scale ($M_5 \sim (10^{16}-10^{17})$ GeV). Furthermore, no matter how many scalar fields we use it is not possible to have chaotic inflation with field values below the fundamental Planck mass. 
0704.03202	The SCUBA-2 "All-Sky" Survey	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M.A. Thompson, S. Serjeant, T. Jenness, D. Scott, M. Ashdown, C. Brunt, H. Butner, E. Chapin, A. C. Chrysostomou, J. S. Clark, D. Clements, J. L. Collett, K. Coppin, I. M. Coulson, W. R. F. Dent, F. Economou, A. Evans, P. Friberg, G. A. Fuller, A. G. Gibb, J. Greaves, J. Hatchell, W. S. Holland, M. Hudson, R. J. Ivison, A. Jaffe, G. Joncas, H. R. A. Jones, J. H. Knapen, J. Leech, R. Mann, H. E. Matthews, T. J. T. Moore, A. Mortier, M. Negrello, D. Nutter, M. P. Pestalozzi, A. Pope, J. Richer, R. Shipman, J. S. Urquhart, M. Vaccari, L. Van Waerbeke, S. Viti, B. Weferling, G. J. White, J. Wouterloot, M. Zhu	 Abstract: The sub-millimetre wavelength regime is perhaps the most poorly explored over large areas of the sky, despite the considerable effort that has been expended in making deep maps over small regions. As a consequence the properties of the sub-millimetre sky as a whole, and of rare bright objects in particular, remains largely unknown. Here we describe a forthcoming survey (the SCUBA-2 ``All-Sky'' Survey, or SASSy) designed to address this issue by making a large-area map of approximately one-fifth of the sky visible from the JCMT (4800 square degrees) down to a 1 sigma noise level of 30 mJy/beam. This map forms the pilot for a much larger survey, which will potentially map the remaining sky visible from the JCMT, with the region also visible to ALMA as a priority. SASSy has been awarded 500 hours for the 4800 square degree pilot phase and will commence after the commissioning of SCUBA-2, expected in early 2008. 
0704.03203	The Infrared Extinction Law at Extreme Depth in a Dark Cloud Core	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C. Román-Zúñiga, C. Lada, A. Muench, J. Alves	 Abstract: We combined sensitive near-infrared data obtained with ground-based imagers on the ESO NTT and VLT telescopes with space mid-infrared data acquired with the IRAC imager on the Spitzer Space Telescope to calculate the extinction law A_\lambda/A_K as a function of \lambda between 1.25 and 7.76 micron to an unprecedented depth in Barnard 59, a star forming, dense core located in the Pipe Nebula. The ratios A_\lambda/A_K were calculated from the slopes of the distributions of sources in color-color diagrams \lambda-K vs. H-K. The distributions in the color-color diagrams are fit well with single slopes to extinction levels of A_K ~ 7 (A_V ~ 59 mag). Consequently, there appears to be no significant variation of the extinction law with depth through the B59 line of sight. However, when slopes are translated into the relative extinction coefficients A_\lambda/A_K, we find an extinction law which departs from the simple extrapolation of the near-infrared power law extinction curve, and agrees more closely with a dust extinction model for a cloud with a total to selective absorption R_V=5.5 and a grain size distribution favoring larger grains than those in the diffuse ISM. Thus, the difference we observe could be possibly due to the effect of grain growth in denser regions. Finally, the slopes in our diagrams are somewhat less steep than those from the study of Indebetouw et al. (2005) for clouds with lower column densities, and this indicates that the extinction law between 3 and 8 micron might vary slightly as a function of environment. 
0704.03204	The Magnetic Field Structure of the LMC 2 Supershell: NGC 2100	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:John P. Wisniewski (1), Karen S. Bjorkman (2), Antonio M. Magalhaes (3), Antonio Pereyra (3); ((1) NASA GSFC; (2) University of Toledo; (3) University of Sao Paulo)	 Abstract: We present U,B,V,R,I imaging polarimetry of NGC 2100 and its surrounding environment, which comprise a part of the LMC 2 supershell. The morphology of the observed position angle distribution provides a tracer of the projected magnetic field in this environment. Our polarization maps detail regions exhibiting similarly aligned polarization position angles, as well as more complex position angle patterns. We observe regions of coherent fields on spatial scales of 42 x 24 pc to 104 x 83 pc, and infer projected field strengths of $\sim14-30\mu$G. We propose that the superposition of global outflows from the LMC 2 environment, as well as outflows created within NGC 2100, produce the unique field geometry in the region. 
0704.03205	Renormalization and Effective Actions for General Relativity	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Falk Neugebohrn	 Abstract: Quantum gravity is analyzed from the viewpoint of the renormalization group. The analysis is based on methods introduced by J. Polchinski concerning the perturbative renormalization with flow equations. In the first part of this work, the program of renormalization with flow equations is reviewed and then extended to effective field theories that have a finite UV cutoff. This is done for a scalar field theory by imposing additional renormalization conditions for some of the nonrenormalizable couplings. It turns out that one so obtains a statement on the predictivity of the effective theory at scales far below the UV cutoff. In particular, nonrenormalizable theories can be treated without problems in the proposed framework. In the second part, the standard covariant BRS quantization program for Euclidean Einstein gravity is applied. A momentum cutoff regularization is imposed and the resulting violation of the Slavnov-Taylor identities is discussed. Deriving Polchinski's renormalization group equation for Euclidean quantum gravity, the predictivity of effective quantum gravity at scales far below the Planck scale is investigated with flow equations. A fine-tuning procedure for restoring the violated Slavnov-Taylor identities is proposed and it is argued that in the effective quantum gravity context, the restoration will only be accomplished with finite accuracy. Finally, the no-cutoff limit of Euclidean quantum gravity is analyzed from the viewpoint of the Polchinski method. It is speculated whether a limit with nonvanishing gravitational constant might exist where the latter would ultimatively be determined by the cosmological constant and the masses of the elementary particles. 
0704.03206	ECHO: an Eulerian Conservative High Order scheme for general  relativistic magnetohydrodynamics and magnetodynamics	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:L. Del Zanna, O. Zanotti, N. Bucciantini, P. Londrillo	 Abstract: We present a new numerical code, ECHO, based on an Eulerian Conservative High Order scheme for time dependent three-dimensional general relativistic magnetohydrodynamics (GRMHD) and magnetodynamics (GRMD). ECHO is aimed at providing a shock-capturing conservative method able to work at an arbitrary level of formal accuracy (for smooth flows), where the other existing GRMHD and GRMD schemes yield an overall second order at most. Moreover, our goal is to present a general framework, based on the 3+1 Eulerian formalism, allowing for different sets of equations, different algorithms, and working in a generic space-time metric, so that ECHO may be easily coupled to any solver for Einstein's equations. Various high order reconstruction methods are implemented and a two-wave approximate Riemann solver is used. The induction equation is treated by adopting the Upwind Constrained Transport (UCT) procedures, appropriate to preserve the divergence-free condition of the magnetic field in shock-capturing methods. The limiting case of magnetodynamics (also known as force-free degenerate electrodynamics) is implemented by simply replacing the fluid velocity with the electromagnetic drift velocity and by neglecting the matter contribution to the stress tensor. ECHO is particularly accurate, efficient, versatile, and robust. It has been tested against several astrophysical applications, including a novel test on the propagation of large amplitude circularly polarized Alfven waves. In particular, we show that reconstruction based on a Monotonicity Preserving filter applied to a fixed 5-point stencil gives highly accurate results for smooth solutions, both in flat and curved metric (up to the nominal fifth order), while at the same time providing sharp profiles in tests involving discontinuities. 
0704.03207	Gluon condensate behaviour at filling the Fermi sphere up	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:A.E. Dorokhov, S.V. Molodtsov, G.M. Zinovjev	 Abstract: The impact of filling up the Fermi sphere with the quarks, which dynamically generated their masses on the instanton liquid at finite temperature and baryonic/quark number density, is investigated. It is demonstrated, in particular, that the boundary of chiral symmetry restoration phase transition is shifted to the larger (about 100 MeV more) value of quark chemical potential compared to the magnitude inherent in the Nambu-Jona-Lasinio model. 
0704.03208	Callan-Symanzik method for $m$-axial Lifshitz points	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Paulo R. S. Carvalho, Marcelo M. Leite	 Abstract: We introduce the Callan-Symanzik method in the description of anisotropic as well as isotropic Lifshitz critical behaviors. Renormalized perturbation theories are defined by normalization conditions with nonvanishing masses and at zero external momenta. The orthogonal approximation is employed to obtain the critical indices $\eta_{L2}$, $\nu_{L2}$, $\eta_{L4}$ and $\nu_{L4}$ diagramatically at least up to two-loop order in the anisotropic criticalities. This approximation is also utilized to compute the exponents $\eta_{L4}$ and $\nu_{L4}$ in the isotropic case. Furthermore, we compute those exponents exactly for the isotropic behaviors at the same loop order. The results obtained for all exponents are in perfect agreement with those previously derived in the massless theories renormalized at nonzero external momenta. 
0704.03209	Coulomb Drag in Graphene	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Wang-Kong Tse, Ben Yu-Kuang Hu, S. Das Sarma	 Abstract: We study the Coulomb drag between two single graphene sheets in intrinsic and extrinsic graphene systems with no interlayer tunneling. The general expression for the nonlinear susceptibility appropriate for single-layer graphene systems is derived using the diagrammatic perturbation theory, and the corresponding exact zero-temperature expression is obtained analytically. We find that, despite the existence of a non-zero conductivity in an intrinsic graphene layer, the Coulomb drag between intrinsic graphene layers vanishes at all temperatures. In extrinsic systems, we obtain numerical results and an approximate analytical result for the drag resistivity $\rho_{\textrm{D}}$, and find that $\rho_{\textrm{D}}$ goes as $T^2$ at low temperature $T$, as $1/d^4$ for large bilayer separation $d$ and $1/n^3$ for high carrier density $n$. We also discuss qualitatively the effect of plasmon-induced enhancement on the Coulomb drag, which should occur at a temperature of the order of or higher than the Fermi temperature. 
0704.03210	Hamiltonian theory of the half-filled Landau level with disorder:  Application to recent NMR data	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Ganpathy Murthy, R. Shankar	 Abstract: The Hamiltonian Theory of the fractional quantum Hall effect is an operator description that subsumes many properties of Composite Fermions, applies to gapped and gapless cases, and has been found to provide results in quantitative accord with data on gaps, relaxation rates and polarizations at temperatures of $300mK$ and above. The only free parameter is $\lambda$, which is related to the sample thickness and appears in the Zhang-Das Sarma potential $v(q) = {2\pi e^2\over \kappa q} e^{-ql\lambda}$ where $l$ and $\kappa $ are the magnetic length and dielectric constant. Here we examine the recent data of Tracy and Eisenstein on the nuclear magnetic resonance relaxation rate at filling factor $\nu=\half$ deduced from resistivity measurements at temperatures as low as $45mK$. We find that their results can be satisfactorily described by this theory, if in addition to a $v(q)$ with $\lambda \simeq 2$, a constant disorder width $\Gamma\simeq 100 mK$ is incorporated. 
0704.03211	Ergodic model for the expansion of spherical nanoplasmas	Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)	Authors:F. Peano, G. Coppa, F. Peinetti, R. Mulas, L. O. Silva	 Abstract: Recently, the collisionless expansion of spherical nanoplasmas has been analyzed with a new ergodic model, clarifying the transition from hydrodynamic-like to Coulomb-explosion regimes, and providing accurate laws for the relevant features of the phenomenon. A complete derivation of the model is here presented. The important issue of the self-consistent initial conditions is addressed by analyzing the initial charging transient due to the electron expansion, in the approximation of immobile ions. A comparison among different kinetic models for the expansion is presented, showing that the ergodic model provides a simplified description, which retains the essential information on the electron distribution, in particular, the energy spectrum. Results are presented for a wide range of initial conditions (determined from a single dimensionless parameter), in excellent agreement with calculations from the exact Vlasov-Poisson theory, thus providing a complete and detailed characterization of all the stages of the expansion. 
0704.03212	Spin-charge filtering through a spin-orbit coupled quantum dot  controlled via an Aharonov-Bohm interferometer	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:R. J. Heary, J. E. Han, Lingyin Zhu	 Abstract: We show that a strongly correlated quantum dot embedded in an Aharonov-Bohm interferometer can be used to filter both charge and spin at zero voltage bias. The magnitude with which the Aharonov-Bohm arm is coupled to the system controls the many-body effects on the quantum dot. When the quantum dot is in the Kondo regime the flow of charge through the system can be tuned by the phase of the Aharonov-Bohm arm, $\phi_{AB}$. Furthermore when a spin-orbit interaction is present on a Kondo quantum dot we can control the flow of spin by the spin-orbit phase, $\phi_{SO}$. The existence of the Kondo peak at the Fermi energy makes it possible to control the flow of both charge and spin in the zero voltage bias limit. 
0704.03213	Dynamic rays of bounded-type entire functions	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Günter Rottenfußer, Johannes Rückert, Lasse Rempe, Dierk Schleicher	 Abstract: We construct an entire function in the Eremenko-Lyubich class $\B$ whose Julia set has only bounded path-components. This answers a question of Eremenko from 1989 in the negative. On the other hand, we show that for many functions in $\B$, in particular those of finite order, every escaping point can be connected to $\infty$ by a curve of escaping points. This gives a partial positive answer to the aforementioned question of Eremenko, and answers a question of Fatou from 1926. 
0704.03214	(2+1)-Dimensional Quantum Gravity as the Continuum Limit of Causal  Dynamical Triangulations	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:D. Benedetti, R. Loll, F. Zamponi	 Abstract: We perform a non-perturbative sum over geometries in a (2+1)-dimensional quantum gravity model given in terms of Causal Dynamical Triangulations. Inspired by the concept of triangulations of product type introduced previously, we impose an additional notion of order on the discrete, causal geometries. This simplifies the combinatorial problem of counting geometries just enough to enable us to calculate the transfer matrix between boundary states labelled by the area of the spatial universe, as well as the corresponding quantum Hamiltonian of the continuum theory. This is the first time in dimension larger than two that a Hamiltonian has been derived from such a model by mainly analytical means, and opens the way for a better understanding of scaling and renormalization issues. 
0704.03215	Restrictions on sterile neutrino parameters from astrophysical  observations	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Oleg Ruchayskiy	 Abstract: Adding 3 right-handed (sterile) neutrino to the Standard Model (SM) can solve several "beyond the Standard Model" problems within one consistent framework: explain neutrino oscillations and baryon asymmetry of the Universe and provide a dark matter (DM) candidate. In this talk I will present current status of astrophysical searches for the DM sterile neutrino. 
0704.03216	The Hartogs extension theorem on (n-1)-complete complex spaces	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Joel Merker, Egmont Porten	 Abstract: Employing Morse theory for the global control of monodromy and the method of analytic discs for local extension, we establish a version of the global Hartogs extension theorem in a singular setting: for every domain D of an (n-1)-complete normal complex space X of pure dimension n >= 2 and for every compact set K in D such that D - K is connected, holomorphic or meromorphic functions in D - K extend holomorphically or meromorphically to D. Normality is an unvavoidable assumption for holomorphic extension, but we show that meromorphic extension holds on a reduced globally irreducible (not necessarily normal) X of pure dimension n >=2 provided that the regular part of D - K is connected. 
0704.03217	On limit cycles appearing by polynomial perturbation of Darbouxian  integrable systems	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Dmitry Novikov	 Abstract: We prove an existential finiteness Varchenko-Khovanskii type result for integrals of rational 1-forms over the level curves of Darbouxian integrals. 
0704.03218	Density of bulk trap states in organic semiconductor crystals: discrete  levels induced by oxygen in rubrene	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:C. Krellner, S. Haas, C. Goldmann, K. P. Pernstich, D. J. Gundlach, B. Batlogg (Laboratory for Solid State Physics, ETH Zurich, Switzerland)	 Abstract: The density of trap states in the bandgap of semiconducting organic single crystals has been measured quantitatively and with high energy resolution by means of the experimental method of temperature-dependent space-charge-limited-current spectroscopy (TD-SCLC). This spectroscopy has been applied to study bulk rubrene single crystals, which are shown by this technique to be of high chemical and structural quality. A density of deep trap states as low as ~ 10^{15} cm^{-3} is measured in the purest crystals, and the exponentially varying shallow trap density near the band edge could be identified (1 decade in the density of states per ~25 meV). Furthermore, we have induced and spectroscopically identified an oxygen related sharp hole bulk trap state at 0.27 eV above the valence band. 
0704.03219	The structure of sunspot penumbrae IV. MHS equilibrium for penumbral  flux tubes and the origin of dark core penumbral filaments and penumbral  grains	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J.M. Borrero	 Abstract: We study the magnetohydrostatic equilibrium of magnetic flux tubes with circular cross sections embedded in a magnetic surrounding atmosphere. We solve the static momentum equation in 2.5D to obtain the thermodynamics that are consistent with a prescribed velocity and magnetic fields. We show that force balance is roughly satisfied if the flux tube's magnetic field is aligned with its axis. Equilibrium is guaranteed if this magnetic field possesses a transverse component. Several forms of this transverse field are investigated. The resulting magnetic field configurations are critically reviewed in terms of the results from spectropolarimetric observations. The thermodynamic structure that allows the flux tube to be in mechanical equilibrium is also calculated. We show that the inferred pressure, density and temperature stratification reproduce intensity features similar to dark core penumbral filaments and penumbral grains. 
0704.03220	Lectures on (abelian) Chern-Simons vortices	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:P. A. Horvathy	 Abstract: Various aspects including the construction and the symmetries of Abelian Chern-Simons vortices are reviewed. Extended version of the Lectures delivered at NIKHEF (Amsterdam), July 2006. Typos corrected, some refernces added. 
0704.03221	Multiple pattern matching: A Markov chain approach	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Manuel Lladser, M. D. Betterton, Rob Knight	 Abstract: RNA motifs typically consist of short, modular patterns that include base pairs formed within and between modules. Estimating the abundance of these patterns is of fundamental importance for assessing the statistical significance of matches in genomewide searches, and for predicting whether a given function has evolved many times in different species or arose from a single common ancestor. In this manuscript, we review in an integrated and self-contained manner some basic concepts of automata theory, generating functions and transfer matrix methods that are relevant to pattern analysis in biological sequences. We formalize, in a general framework, the concept of Markov chain embedding to analyze patterns in random strings produced by a memoryless source. This conceptualization, together with the capability of automata to recognize complicated patterns, allows a systematic analysis of problems related to the occurrence and frequency of patterns in random strings. The applications we present focus on the concept of synchronization of automata, as well as automata used to search for a finite number of keywords (including sets of patterns generated according to base pairing rules) in a general text. 
0704.03222	Copolymer-homopolymer blends: global energy minimisation and global  energy bounds	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Yves van Gennip, Mark A. Peletier	 Abstract: We study a variational model for a diblock-copolymer/homopolymer blend. The energy functional is a sharp-interface limit of a generalisation of the Ohta-Kawasaki energy. In one dimension, on the real line and on the torus, we prove existence of minimisers of this functional and we describe in complete detail the structure and energy of stationary points. Furthermore we characterise the conditions under which the minimisers may be non-unique. In higher dimensions we construct lower and upper bounds on the energy of minimisers, and explicitly compute the energy of spherically symmetric configurations. 
0704.03223	Coupling of transverse and longitudinal response in stiff polymers	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Benedikt Obermayer, Oskar Hallatschek	 Abstract: The time-dependent transverse response of stiff polymers, represented as weakly-bending wormlike chains (WLCs), is well-understood on the linear level, where transverse degrees of freedom evolve independently from the longitudinal ones. We show that, beyond a characteristic time scale, the nonlinear coupling of transverse and longitudinal motion in an inextensible WLC significantly weakens the polymer response compared to the widely used linear response predictions. The corresponding feedback mechanism is rationalized by scaling arguments and quantified by a multiple scale approach that exploits an inherent separation of transverse and longitudinal correlation length scales. Crossover scaling laws and exact analytical and numerical solutions for characteristic response quantities are derived for different experimentally relevant setups. Our findings are applicable to cytoskeletal filaments as well as DNA under tension. 
0704.03224	Supergiant Fast X-ray Transients: A common behaviour or a class of  objects?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ignacio Negueruela (Universidad de Alicante), David M. Smith (UCSC), Jose Miguel Torrejon (alicante), Pablo Reig (FORTH/University of Crete)	 Abstract: INTEGRAL monitoring of the Galactic Plane is revealing a growing number of recurrent X-ray transients, characterised by short outbursts with very fast rise times (~ tens of minutes) and typical durations of a few hours. A substantial fraction of these sources are associated with OB supergiants and hence define a new class of massive X-ray binaries, which we call Supergiant Fast X-ray Transients. Characterisation of the astrophysical parameters of their counterparts is underway. So far, we have found a number of late O and early B supergiants of different luminosities at a large range of distances. Nothing in their optical properties sets them apart from classical Supergiant X-ray Binaries. On the other hand, there is now rather concluding evidence that persistent supergiant X-ray binaries also show fast outbursts. This suggests a continuum of behaviours between typical persistent supergiant systems and purely transient systems, but offers very little information about the physical causes of the outbursts. 
0704.03225	Linear algebra and differential geometry on abstract Hilbert space	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Alexey A. Kryukov	 Abstract: Isomorphisms of separable Hilbert spaces are analogous to isomorphisms of n-dimensional vector spaces. However, while n-dimensional spaces in applications are always realized as the Euclidean space R^n, Hilbert spaces admit various useful realizations as spaces of functions. In the paper this simple observation is used to construct a fruitful formalism of local coordinates on Hilbert manifolds. Images of charts on manifolds in the formalism are allowed to belong to arbitrary Hilbert spaces of functions including spaces of generalized functions. Tensor equations then describe families of functional equations on various spaces of functions. The formalism itself and its applications in linear algebra, differential equations and differential geometry are analyzed. 
0704.03226	Delay estimation in a two-node acyclic network	Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)	Authors:Radhakrishnan Nagarajan	 Abstract: Linear measures such as cross-correlation have been used successfully to determine time delays from the given processes. Such an analysis often precedes identifying possible causal relationships between the observed processes. The present study investigates the impact of a positively correlated driver whose correlation function decreases monotonically with lag on the delay estimation in a two-node acyclic network with one and two-delays. It is shown that cross-correlation analysis of the given processes can result in spurious identification of multiple delays between the driver and the dependent processes. Subsequently, delay estimation of increment process as opposed to the original process under certain implicit constraints is explored. Short-range and long-range correlated driver processes along with those of their coarse-grained counterparts are considered. 
0704.03227	Smectic elastomer membranes	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Olaf Stenull	 Abstract: We present a model for smectic elastomer membranes which includes elastic and liquid crystalline degrees of freedom. Based on our model, we determined the qualitative phase diagram of a smectic elastomer membrane using mean-field theory. This phase diagram is found to comprise five phases, viz. smectic-A--flat, smectic-A--crumpled, smectic-C--flat, smectic-C--crumpled and smectic-C--tubule, where in the latter phase, the membrane is flat in the direction of mesogenic tilt and crumpled in the perpendicular direction. The transitions between adjacent phases are second order phase transitions. We study in some detail the elasticity of the smectic-C--flat and the smectic-C--tubule phases which are associated with a spontaneous breaking of in-plane rotational symmetry. As a consequence of the Goldstone theorem, these phases exhibit soft elasticity characterized by the vanishing of in-plane shear moduli. 
0704.03228	Characterization of P2P IPTV Traffic: Scaling Analysis	Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)	Authors:Thomas Silverston, Olivier Fourmaux, Kave Salamatian	 Abstract: P2P IPTV applications arise on the Internet and will be massively used in the future. It is expected that P2P IPTV will contribute to increase the overall Internet traffic. In this context, it is important to measure the impact of P2P IPTV on the networks and to characterize this traffic. Dur- ing the 2006 FIFA World Cup, we performed an extensive measurement campaign. We measured network traffic generated by broadcasting soc- cer games by the most popular P2P IPTV applications, namely PPLive, PPStream, SOPCast and TVAnts. From the collected data, we charac- terized the P2P IPTV traffic structure at different time scales by using wavelet based transform method. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work, which presents a complete multiscale analysis of the P2P IPTV traffic. Our results show that the scaling properties of the TCP traffic present periodic behavior whereas the UDP traffic is stationary and lead to long- range depedency characteristics. For all the applications, the download traffic has different characteristics than the upload traffic. The signaling traffic has a significant impact on the download traffic but it has negligible impact on the upload. Both sides of the traffic and its granularity has to be taken into account to design accurate P2P IPTV traffic models. 
0704.03229	The Long Period, Massive Binaries HD 37366 and HD 54662: Potential  Targets for Long Baseline Optical Interferometry	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:T. S. Boyajian, D. R. Gies, J. P. Dunn, C. D. Farrington, E. D. Grundstrom, W. Huang, M. V. McSwain, S. J. Williams, D. W. Wingert, A. W. Fullerton, C. T. Bolton	 Abstract: We present the results from an optical spectroscopic analysis of the massive stars HD 37366 and HD 54662. We find that HD 37366 is a double-lined spectroscopic binary with a period of 31.8187 +/- 0.0004 days, and HD 54662 is also a double lined binary with a much longer period of 557.8 +/- 0.3 days. The primary of HD 37366 is classified as O9.5 V, and it contributes approximately two-thirds of the optical flux. The less luminous secondary is a broad-lined, early B-type main-sequence star. Tomographic reconstruction of the individual spectra of HD 37366 reveals absorption lines present in each component, enabling us to constrain the nature of the secondary and physical characteristics of both stars. Tomographic reconstruction was not possible for HD 54662; however, we do present mean spectra from our observations that show that the secondary component is approximately half as bright as the primary. The observed spectral energy distributions (SEDs) were fit with model SEDs and galactic reddening curves to determine the angular sizes of the stars. By assuming radii appropriate for their classifications, we determine distance ranges of 1.4 - 1.9 and 1.2 - 1.5 kpc for HD 37366 and HD 54662, respectively. 
0704.03230	Time scale of entropic segregation of flexible polymers in confinement:  Implications for chromosome segregation in filamentous bacteria	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Axel Arnold, Suckjoon Jun	 Abstract: We report molecular dynamics simulations of the segregation of two overlapping chains in cylindrical confinement. We find that the entropic repulsion between the chains can be sufficiently strong to cause segregation on a time scale that is short compared to the one for diffusion. This result implies that entropic driving forces are sufficiently strong to cause rapid bacterial chromosome segregation. 
0704.03231	Absolute Galois acts faithfully on the components of the moduli space of  surfaces: A Belyi-type theorem in higher dimension	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Robert W. Easton, Ravi Vakil	 Abstract: Given an object over the algebraic closure Qbar of Q, there is often no reason for invariants of the corresponding holomorphic object to be preserved by the absolute Galois group Gal(Qbar/Q), and in general this is not true, although it is sometimes surprising to observe in practice. The case of covers of the projective line branched only over the points 0, 1, and infinity, through Belyi's theorem, leads to Grothendieck's dessins d'enfants program for understanding the absolute Galois group through its faithful action on such covers. This note is motivated by Catanese's question about a higher-dimensional analogue: does the absolute Galois group act faithfully on the deformation equivalence classes of smooth surfaces? (These equivalence classes are of course by definition the strongest deformation invariants.) We give a short proof of a weaker result: the absolute Galois group acts faithfully on the irreducible components of the moduli space of smooth surfaces (of general type, canonically polarized). Bauer, Catanese, and Grunewald have recently answered Catanese's original question using a different construction. 
0704.03232	Characterization of polynomials	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:V.E.S. Szabo	 Abstract: In 1954 it was proved if f is infinitely differentiable in the interval I and some derivative (of order depending on x) vanishes at each x, then f is a polynomial. Later it was generalized for multi-variable case. In this paper we give an extension for distributions. 
0704.03233	Slowly rotating pulsars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. D. Alloy, D. P. Menezes	 Abstract: In the present work we investigate one possible variation on the usual static pulsars: the inclusion of rotation. We use a formalism proposed by Hartle and Thorne to calculate the properties of rotating pulsars with all possible compositions. All calculations were performed for zero temperature and also for fixed entropy equations of state. 
0704.03234	The Phase Structure of the Polyakov--Quark-Meson Model	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Bernd-Jochen Schaefer, Jan M. Pawlowski, Jochen Wambach	 Abstract: The relation between the deconfinement and chiral phase transition is explored in the framework of an Polyakov-loop-extended two-flavor quark-meson (PQM) model. In this model the Polyakov loop dynamics is represented by a background temporal gauge field which also couples to the quarks. As a novelty an explicit quark chemical potential and N_f-dependence in the Polyakov loop potential is proposed by using renormalization group arguments. The behavior of the Polyakov loop as well as the chiral condensate as function of temperature and quark chemical potential is obtained by minimizing the grand canonical thermodynamic potential of the system. The effect of the Polyakov loop dynamics on the chiral phase diagram and on several thermodynamic bulk quantities is presented. 
0704.03235	XMM-Newton X-ray Observations of the Wolf-Rayet Binary System WR 147	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S.L. Skinner, S.A. Zhekov, M. Guedel, W. Schmutz	 Abstract: We present results of a 20 ksec X-ray observation of the Wolf-Rayet (WR) binary system WR 147 obtained with XMM-Newton. Previous studies have shown that this system consists of a nitrogen-type WN8 star plus an OB companion whose winds are interacting to produce a colliding wind shock. X-ray spectra from the pn and MOS detectors confirm the high extinction reported from IR studies and reveal hot plasma including the first detection of the Fe K-alpha line complex at 6.67 keV. Spectral fits with a constant-temperature plane-parallel shock model give a shock temperature kT(shock) = 2.7 keV [T(shock) ~ 31 MK], close to but slightly hotter than the maximum temperature predicted for a colliding wind shock. Optically thin plasma models suggest even higher temperatures, which are not yet ruled out. The X-ray spectra are harder than can be accounted for using 2D numerical colliding wind shock models based on nominal mass-loss parameters. Possible explanations include: (i) underestimates of the terminal wind speeds or wind abundances, (ii) overly simplistic colliding wind models, or (iii) the presence of other X-ray emission mechanisms besides colliding wind shocks. Further improvement of the numerical models to include potentially important physics such as non-equilibrium ionization will be needed to rigorously test the colliding wind interpretation. 
0704.03236	A "diamond-ring" star: the unusual morphologic structure of a young  (multiple?) object	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Joao L. Yun, Jose M. Torrelles, Nuno C. Santos	 Abstract: We have observed IRAS06468-0325 obtaining optical and infrared images through IJHKs and L' filters, K-band low-resolution spectroscopy, together with millimetre line observations of CO and CS. IRAS06468-0325 has a very unusual and enigmatic morphology with two components: a bright, close to point-like source (the diamond) and a sharp-edge ring-like structure (the ring). The source is not detected in the optical, at wavelengths shorter than the I-band. The diamond is seen in all the imaging bands observed. The ring-like structure in IRAS06468-0325 is clearly seen in the I, J, H, and Ks. It is not detected in the L'-band image. Infrared colours of the diamond are compatible with excess circumstellar emission and a young stellar nature. A strongly non-gaussian and moderately bright CO(1-0) and {13}CO(2-1) lines are seen towards IRAS06468-0325, at v_{LSR} of 30.5 km s{-1} (corresponding to a kinematic distance of 3 kpc). Very weak C{18}O(2-1) and CS(2-1) lines were detected. K-band spectra of the diamond and of the ring are similar both in the slope of the continuum and in the presence of lines supporting the idea that the ring is reflected light from the diamond. With the current data, a few different scenarios are possible to explain the morphology of this object. However, the available data seem to favour that the morphology of IRAS06468-0325 correspond to a young stellar multiple system in a transient stage where a binary co-exists with a circumbinary disc, similar to the case of GG Tau. In this case, the sharpness of the well-defined ring may be due to tidal truncation from dynamic interactions between components in a binary or multiple stellar system. IRAS06468-0325 may be an important rare case that illustrates a short-lived stage of the process of binary or multiple star formation. 
0704.03237	Gibbs measures on Brownian currents	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Massimiliano Gubinelli, Jozsef Lorinczi	 Abstract: Motivated by applications to quantum field theory we consider Gibbs measures for which the reference measure is Wiener measure and the interaction is given by a double stochastic integral and a pinning external potential. In order properly to characterize these measures through DLR equations, we are led to lift Wiener measure and other objects to a space of configurations where the basic observables are not only the position of the particle at all times but also the work done by test vector fields. We prove existence and basic properties of such Gibbs measures in the small coupling regime by means of cluster expansion. 
0704.03238	Alternative axiomatics and complexity of deliberative STIT theories	Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)	Authors:Philippe Balbiani, Andreas Herzig, Nicolas Troquard	 Abstract: We propose two alternatives to Xu's axiomatization of the Chellas STIT. The first one also provides an alternative axiomatization of the deliberative STIT. The second one starts from the idea that the historic necessity operator can be defined as an abbreviation of operators of agency, and can thus be eliminated from the logic of the Chellas STIT. The second axiomatization also allows us to establish that the problem of deciding the satisfiability of a STIT formula without temporal operators is NP-complete in the single-agent case, and is NEXPTIME-complete in the multiagent case, both for the deliberative and the Chellas' STIT. 
0704.03239	A general approach to few-cycle intense laser interactions with complex  atoms	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:X. Guan, O. Zatsarinny, K. Bartschat, B.I. Schneider, J. Feist, C.J. Noble	 Abstract: A general {\it ab-initio} and non-perturbative method to solve the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation (TDSE) for the interaction of a strong attosecond laser pulse with a general atom, i.e., beyond the models of quasi-one-electron or quasi-two-electron targets, is described. The field-free Hamiltonian and the dipole matrices are generated using a flexible $B$-spline $R$-matrix method. This numerical implementation enables us to construct term-dependent, non-orthogonal sets of one-electron orbitals for the bound and continuum electrons. The solution of the TDSE is propagated in time using the Arnoldi-Lanczos method, which does not require the diagonalization of any large matrices. The method is illustrated by an application to the multi-photon excitation and ionization of Ne atoms. Good agreement with $R$-matrix Floquet calculations for the generalized cross sections for two-photon ionization is achieved. 
0704.03240	Finite Element Analysis of the Schroedinger Equation	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:Avtar S. Sehra	 Abstract: The purpose of this work is to test the application of the finite element method to quantum mechanical problems, in particular for solving the Schroedinger equation. We begin with an overview of quantum mechanics, and standard numerical techniques. We then give an introduction to finite element analysis using the diffusion equation as an example. Three numerical time evolution methods are considered: the (tried and tested) Crank-Nicolson method, the continuous space-time method, and the discontinuous space-time method. 
0704.03241	Neighbor Discovery in Wireless Networks:A Multiuser-Detection Approach	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Daniele Angelosante, Ezio Biglieri, Marco Lops	 Abstract: We examine the problem of determining which nodes are neighbors of a given one in a wireless network. We consider an unsupervised network operating on a frequency-flat Gaussian channel, where $K+1$ nodes associate their identities to nonorthogonal signatures, transmitted at random times, synchronously, and independently. A number of neighbor-discovery algorithms, based on different optimization criteria, are introduced and analyzed. Numerical results show how reduced-complexity algorithms can achieve a satisfactory performance. 
0704.03242	Line Emission in the Brightest Cluster Galaxies of the NOAO Fundamental  Plane and Sloan Digital Sky Surveys	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:L. O. V. Edwards (1), Michael J. Hudson (2), Michael L. Balogh (2), Russell J. Smith (3) ((1) Université Laval, (2) University of Waterloo, (3) Durham University)	 Abstract: We examine the optical emission line properties of Brightest Cluster Galaxies (BCGs) selected from two large, homogeneous datasets. The first is the X-ray selected National Optical Astronomy Observatory Fundamental Plane Survey (NFPS), and the second is the C4 catalogue of optically selected clusters built from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release ~3 (SDSS DR3). Our goal is to better understand the optical line emission in BCGs with respect to properties of the galaxy and the host cluster. Throughout the analysis we compare the line emission of the BCGs to that of a control sample made of the other bright galaxies near the cluster centre. Overall, both the NFPS and SDSS show a modest fraction of BCGs with emission lines (~15%). No trend in the fraction of emitting BCGs as a function of galaxy mass or cluster velocity dispersion is found. However we find that, for those BCGs found in cooling flow clusters, 71^{+9}_{-14}% have optical emission. Furthermore, if we consider only BCGs within 50kpc of the X-ray centre of a cooling flow cluster, the emission-line fraction rises further to 100^{+0}_{-15}%. Excluding the cooling flow clusters, only ~10% of BCGs are line emitting, comparable to the control sample of galaxies. We show that the physical origin of the emission line activity varies: in some cases it has LINER-like line ratios, whereas in others it is a composite of star-formation and LINER-like activity. We conclude that the presence of emission lines in BCGs is directly related to the cooling of X-ray gas at the cluster centre. 
0704.03243	On Differential Sequences	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:K. Andriopoulos, P. G. L. Leach, A. Maharaj	 Abstract: We introduce the notion of Differential Sequences of ordinary differential equations. This is motivated by related studies based on evolution partial differential equations. We discuss the Riccati Sequence in terms of symmetry analysis, singularity analysis and identification of the complete symmetry group for each member of the Sequence. The singularity analysis reveals considerable structure for the values of the coefficients of the leading-order terms and resonances of the different principal branches. Full proofs of the symmetry properties are performed for differential equations defined by their recursion properties and not given in explicit form. 
0704.03244	On the Smooth Feshbach-Schur Map	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:M. Griesemer, D. Hasler	 Abstract: A new variant of the Feshbach map, called smooth Feshbach map, has been introduced recently by Bach et al., in connection with the renormalization analysis of non-relativistic quantum electrodynamics. We analyze and clarify its algebraic and analytic properties, and we generalize it to non-selfadjoint partition operators $\chi$ and $\chib$. 
0704.03245	Electrically charged pulsars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. D. Alloy, D. P. Menezes	 Abstract: n the present work we investigate one possible variation on the usual electrically neutral pulsars: the inclusion of electric charge. We study the effect of electric charge in pulsars assuming that the charge distribution is proportional to the energy density. All calculations were performed for zero temperature and fixed entropy equations of state. 
0704.03246	Nonlinear stage of the Benjamin-Feir instability: Three-dimensional  coherent structures and rogue waves	Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)	Authors:V. P. Ruban	 Abstract: A specific, genuinely three-dimensional mechanism of rogue wave formation, in a late stage of the modulational instability of a perturbed Stokes deep-water wave, is recognized through numerical experiments. The simulations are based on fully nonlinear equations describing weakly three-dimensional potential flows of an ideal fluid with a free surface in terms of conformal variables. Spontaneous formation of zigzag patterns for wave amplitude is observed in a nonlinear stage of the instability. If initial wave steepness is sufficiently high ($ka>0.06$), these coherent structures produce rogue waves. The most tall waves appear in ``turns'' of the zigzags. For $ka<0.06$, the structures decay typically without formation of steep waves. 
0704.03247	The Growth of Black Holes and Their Host Spheroids in (Sub)mm-loud QSOs  at High Redshift	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C.N. Hao, X.Y. Xia, S. Mao, Z.G. Deng, Hong Wu	 Abstract: We study the growth of black holes and stellar population in spheroids at high redshift using several (sub)mm-loud QSO samples. Applying the same criteria established in an earlier work, we find that, similar to IR QSOs at low redshift, the far-infrared emission of these (sub)mm-loud QSOs mainly originates from dust heated by starbursts. By combining low-z IR QSOs and high-z (sub)mm-loud QSOs, we find a trend that the star formation rate ($\Mstardot$) increases with the accretion rate ($\Mdot$). We compare the values of $\Mstardot/\Mdot$ for submm emitting galaxies (SMGs), far-infrared ultraluminous/hyperluminous QSOs and typical QSOs, and construct a likely evolution scenario for these objects. The (sub)mm-loud QSO transition phase has both high $\Mdot$ and $\Mstardot$ and hence is important for establishing the correlation between the masses of black holes and spheroids. 
0704.03248	On C$^2$-smooth Surfaces of Constant Width	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Brendan Guilfoyle, Wilhelm Klingenberg	 Abstract: A number of results for C$^2$-smooth surfaces of constant width in Euclidean 3-space ${\mathbb{E}}^3$ are obtained. In particular, an integral inequality for constant width surfaces is established. This is used to prove that the ratio of volume to cubed width of a constant width surface is reduced by shrinking it along its normal lines. We also give a characterization of surfaces of constant width that have rational support function. Our techniques, which are complex differential geometric in nature, allow us to construct explicit smooth surfaces of constant width in ${\mathbb{E}}^3$, and their focal sets. They also allow for easy construction of tetrahedrally symmetric surfaces of constant width. 
0704.03249	Point Interaction Hamiltonians in Bounded Domains	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Ph. Blanchard, R. Figari, A. Mantile	 Abstract: Making use of recent techniques in the theory of selfadjoint extensions of symmetric operators, we characterize the class of point interaction Hamiltonians in a 3-D bounded domain with regular boundary. In the particular case of one point interaction acting in the center of a ball, we obtain an explicit representation of the point spectrum of the operator togheter with the corresponding related eigenfunctions. These operators are used to build up a model-system where the dynamics of a quantum particle depends on the state of a quantum bit. 
0704.03250	Chaos in the Stormer problem	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:Rui Dilao, Rui Alves-Pires	 Abstract: We survey the few exact results on the Stormer problem describing the dynamics of charged particles in the Earth magnetosphere. The analysis of this system leads to the the conclusion that charged particles are trapped in the Earth magnetosphere or escape to infinity, and the trapping region is bounded by a torus-like surface, the Van Allen inner radiation belt. In the trapping region, the motion of the charged particles can be periodic, quasi-period or chaotic. The three main effects observed in the Earth magnetosphere, radiation belts, radiation aurorae and South Atlantic anomaly, are described in the framework described here. We discuss some new mathematical problems suggested by the analysis of the Stormer problem. 
0704.03251	Equifocality of a singular riemannian foliation	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Marcos M. Alexandrino, Dirk Toeben	 Abstract: A singular foliation on a complete riemannian manifold M is said to be riemannian if each geodesic that is perpendicular at one point to a leaf remains perpendicular to every leaf it meets. We prove that the regular leaves are equifocal, i.e., the end point map of a normal foliated vector field has constant rank. This implies that we can reconstruct the singular foliation by taking all parallel submanifolds of a regular leaf with trivial holonomy. In addition, the end point map of a normal foliated vector field on a leaf with trivial holonomy is a covering map. These results generalize previous results of the authors on singular riemannian foliations with sections. 
0704.03252	An analysis of celestial pole offset observations in the free core  nutation frequency band	Geophysics (physics.geo-ph)	Authors:Zinovy Malkin, Natalia Miller	 Abstract: In this study, three empirical Free Core Nutation (FCN) models developed to the present time, MHB2000, Malkin's and Lambert's ones, are compared on the basis of representation of variations of the FCN amplitude and phase predicted by these models. It is possible to conclude, that the model of the author provides the most realistic representation of the FCN variations. However, the specified models are based on representation about single FCN rotational mode. At the same time, some results of processing of the VLBI observations made during last years, specify possible presence of two close FCN periods. A theoretical explanation to presence of a second FCN frequency FCN has been given by G. Krasinsky in his theory of rotation of the Earth with two-layer liquid core, ERA2005. In the present work, for more detailed studying this phenomenon, the IVS time series of celestial pole offset, and also those predicted by the ERA2005 theory, have been investigated by means of several statistical methods which confidently show presence of two fluctuations in nutational movement of an Earth's rotation axis with the periods about -452 and -410 solar days. 
0704.03253	Quantum Hacking: Experimental demonstration of time-shift attack against  practical quantum key distribution systems	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Yi Zhao, Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Bing Qi, Christine Chen, Hoi-Kwong Lo	 Abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) systems can send signals over more than 100 km standard optical fiber and are widely believed to be secure. Here, we show experimentally for the first time a technologically feasible attack, namely the time-shift attack, against a commercial QKD system. Our result shows that, contrary to popular belief, an eavesdropper, Eve, has a non-negligible probability (~4%) to break the security of the system. Eve's success is due to the well-known detection efficiency loophole in the experimental testing of Bell inequalities. Therefore, the detection efficiency loophole plays a key role not only in fundamental physics, but also in technological applications such as QKD. 
0704.03254	Symmetrical invariants of some modular Lie algebras of Cartan type	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Leonid Bedratyuk	 Abstract: Let $L$ be one of the finite dimensional Lie algebras $W_n({\bf m}),$ $S_n({\bf m}),$ $ H_n({\bf m})$ of Cartan type over an algebraically closed field of prime characteristic $p>0.$ For an elements $F$ of the symmetrical algebra $S(L)$ we found necessary and sufficient condition in order to the element $ad(\partial_1)^{p^{m_1}-1} ad(\partial_2)^{p^{m_2}-1}... ad(\partial_n)^{p^{m_n}-1}(F)$ belongs to the symmetrical invariants algebra $S(L)^L.$ Also, for $p=3,5$ the algebra of symmetrical invariants $S(H_2)^{H_2}$ is calculated in explicit way. 
0704.03255	Vacuum Cherenkov radiation in spacelike Maxwell-Chern-Simons theory	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:C. Kaufhold, F. R. Klinkhamer	 Abstract: A detailed analysis of vacuum Cherenkov radiation in spacelike Maxwell-Chern-Simons (MCS) theory is presented. A semiclassical treatment reproduces the leading terms of the tree-level result from quantum field theory. Moreover, certain quantum corrections turn out to be suppressed for large energies of the charged particle, for example, the quantum corrections to the classical MCS Cherenkov angle. It is argued that MCS-theory Cherenkov radiation may, in principle, lead to anisotropy effects for ultra-high-energy cosmic rays (UHECRs). In addition, a qualitative discussion of vacuum Cherenkov radiation from a modified-Maxwell term in the action is given, together with UHECR bounds on some of its dimensionless "coupling constants." 
0704.03256	The moduli space of cubic fourfolds	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Radu Laza	 Abstract: We describe the GIT compactification of the moduli space of cubic fourfolds, with a special emphasis on the role played by singularities. Our main result is that a cubic fourfold with only isolated simple (A-D-E) singularities is GIT stable. Conversely, with some minor exceptions, the stability for cubic fourfolds is characterized by this condition. 
0704.03257	Millimeter dust continuum emission unveiling the true mass of giant  molecular clouds in the Small Magellanic Cloud	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:C. Bot, F. Boulanger, M. Rubio, F. Rantakyro	 Abstract: CO observations have been so far the best way to trace molecular gas in external galaxies, but at low metallicity the gas mass deduced could be largely underestimated. At present, the kinematic information of CO data cubes are used to estimate virial masses and trace the total mass of the molecular clouds. Millimeter dust emission can also be used as a dense gas tracer and could unveil H2 envelopes lacking CO. These different tracers must be compared in different environments. This study compares virial masses to masses deduced from millimeter emission, in two GMC samples: the local molecular clouds in our Galaxy and their equivalents in the Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC), one of the nearest low metallicity dwarf galaxy. In our Galaxy, mass estimates deduced from millimeter emission are consistent with masses deduced from gamma ray analysis and trace the total mass of the clouds. Virial masses are systematically larger (twice on average) than mass estimates from millimeter dust emission. This difference decreases toward high masses and has already been reported in previous studies. In the SMC however, molecular cloud masses deduced from SIMBA millimeter observations are systematically higher (twice on average for conservative values of the dust to gas ratio and dust emissivity) than the virial masses from SEST CO observations. The observed excess can not be accounted for by any plausible change of dust properties. Taking a general form for the virial theorem, we show that a magnetic field strength of ~15 micro Gauss in SMC clouds could provide additional support to the clouds and explain the difference observed. Masses of SMC molecular clouds have therefore been underestimated so far. Magnetic pressure may contribute significantly to their support. 
0704.03258	Natural Realizations of Seesaw in Mini-Warped Minimal SO(10)	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:R. N. Mohapatra, N. Okada, Hai-Bo Yu	 Abstract: The minimal SUSY SO(10) GUT models with {\bf 10}, {\bf 126} and {\bf 210} Higgs and only renormalizable couplings has been shown to provide a simple way to understand the neutrino mixings as well as the ratio $\Delta m^2_\odot/\Delta m^2_A$ in terms of quark mixing parameter $\theta_{Cabibbo}$, provided neutrino masses are described by type II seesaw formula. However, in this minimal picture, it is impossible to realize type II dominance with renormalizable couplings in 4-dimensions. We show that this problem can be cured by embedding this model into a warped 5-dimensional space time with warping between the Planck and the GUT scale, where both type II as well as mixed seesaw formulae can be realized in a natural manner without expanding the Higgs sector. These models also avoid the possible problem of threshold effects associated with large Higgs representations since the theory above the GUT scale is now strongly coupled. 
0704.03259	Python Unleashed on Systems Biology	Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)	Authors:Christopher R. Myers, Ryan N. Gutenkunst, James. P. Sethna	 Abstract: We have built an open-source software system for the modeling of biomolecular reaction networks, SloppyCell, which is written in Python and makes substantial use of third-party libraries for numerics, visualization, and parallel programming. We highlight here some of the powerful features that Python provides that enable SloppyCell to do dynamic code synthesis, symbolic manipulation, and parallel exploration of complex parameter spaces. 
0704.03260	Spectrum of Yang-Mills Theory in D=3+1	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Marco Frasca	 Abstract: We give a comparison of the spectrum of Yang-Mills theory in $D=3+1$, recently derived with a strong coupling expansion, with lattice data. We verify excellent agreement also for 2$^{++}$ glueball. A deep analogy with the $D=2+1$ case is obtained and a full quantum theory of this approach is also given. 
0704.03261	Nearest-neigbor spacing distributions of the beta-Hermite ensemble of  random matrices	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:G. Le Caer, C. Male, R. Delannay	 Abstract: The distributions of the spacing s between nearest-neighbor levels of unfolded spectra of random matrices from the beta-Hermite ensemble (beta-HE) is investigated by Monte Carlo simulations. The random matrices from the beta-HE are real-symmetric and tridiagonal where beta, which can take any positive value, is the reciprocal of the temperature in the classical electrostatic interpretation of eigenvalues. Generalized gamma distributions are shown to be excellent approximations of the nearest-neighbor spacing (NNS) distributions for any beta while being still simple. They account both for the level repulsion when s tends to zero and for the whole shape of the NNS distributions in the range of s which is accessible to experiment or to most numerical simulations. The exact NNS distribution of the GOE (beta=1) is in particular significantly better described by a generalized gamma distribution than it is by the Wigner surmise while the best generalized gamma approximation coincides essentially with the Wigner surmise for beta larger than ~2. The distributions of the minimum NN spacing between eigenvalues of matrices from the beta-HE, obtained both from as-calculated eigenvalues and from unfolded eigenvalues are Brody distributions. 
0704.03262	Impedance spectroscopy of epitaxial multiferroic thin films	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Rainer Schmidt, Wilma Eerenstein, Thomas Winiecki, Finlay D. Morrison, Paul A. Midgley	 Abstract: Temperature dependent impedance spectroscopy enables the many contributions to the dielectric and resistive properties of condensed matter to be deconvoluted and characterized separately. We have achieved this for multiferroic epitaxial thin films of BiFeO3 (BFO) and BiMnO3 (BMO), key examples of materials with strong magneto-electric coupling. We demonstrate that the true film capacitance of the epitaxial layers is similar to that of the electrode interface, making analysis of capacitance as a function of film thickness necessary to achieve deconvolution. We modeled non-Debye impedance response using Gaussian distributions of relaxation times and reveal that conventional resistivity measurements on multiferroic layers may be dominated by interface effects. Thermally activated charge transport models yielded activation energies of 0.60 eV +- 0.05 eV (BFO) and 0.25 eV +- 0.03 eV (BMO), which is consistent with conduction dominated by oxygen vacancies (BFO) and electron hopping (BMO). The intrinsic film dielectric constants were determined to be 320 +- 75 (BFO) and 450 +- 100 (BMO). 
0704.03263	Effect of beta-Dystroglycan Processing on Utrophin / DP116 Anchorage in  Normal and MDX Mouse Schwann Cell Membrane	Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)	Authors:Karim Hnia, Gérald Hugon, Ahmed Masmoudi, Jacques Mercier, François Rivier, Dominique Jean-Marie Mornet	 Abstract: In the peripheral nervous system, utrophin and the short dystrophin isoform (Dp116) are co-localized at the outermost layer of the myelin sheath of nerve fibers; together with the dystroglycan complex. In peripheral nerve, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) creates a 30 kDa fragment of beta-dystroglycan, leading to a disruption of the link between the extracellular matrix and the cell membrane. Here we asked if the processing of the beta-dystroglycan could influence the anchorage of Dp116 or/and utrophin in normal and mdx Schwann cell membrane. We showed that MMP-9 was more activated in mdx nerve than in wild-type one. This activation leads to an accumulation of the 30 kDa beta-dystroglycan isoform and have an impact on the anchorage of Dp116 and utrophin isoforms in mdx Schwann cells membrane. Our results showed that Dp116 had greater affinity to the full length form of beta-dystroglycan than the 30 kDa form. Moreover, we showed for the first time that the short isoform of utrophin (Up71) was over-expressed in mdx Schwann cells compared to wild-type. In addition, this utrophin isoform (Up71) seems to have greater affinity to the 30 kDa beta-dystroglycan which could explain a more stabilization of this 30 kDa at the membrane compartment. Our results highlight the potential participation of the short utrophin isoform and the cleaved form of beta-dystroglycan in mdx Schwann cell membrane architecture. 
0704.03264	Efficiency and versatility of distal multisite transcription regulation	Subcellular Processes (q-bio.SC)	Authors:Leonor Saiz, Jose M. G. Vilar	 Abstract: Transcription regulation typically involves the binding of proteins over long distances on multiple DNA sites that are brought close to each other by the formation of DNA loops. The inherent complexity of the assembly of regulatory complexes on looped DNA challenges the understanding of even the simplest genetic systems, including the prototypical lac operon. Here we implement a scalable quantitative computational approach to analyze systems regulated through multiple DNA sites with looping. Our approach applied to the lac operon accurately predicts the transcription rate over five orders of magnitude for wild type and seven mutants accounting for all the combinations of deletions of the three operators. A quantitative analysis of the model reveals that the presence of three operators provides a mechanism to combine robust repression with sensitive induction, two seemingly mutually exclusive properties that are required for optimal functioning of metabolic switches. 
0704.03265	Static forms of the Robertson-Walker spacetimes	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:M. Ibison	 Abstract: It is shown that only the maximally-symmetric spacetimes can be expressed in both the Robertson-Walker form and in static form - there are no other static forms of the Robertson-Walker spacetimes. All possible static forms of the metric of the maximally-symmetric spacetimes are presented as a table. The findings are generalized to apply to functionally more general spacetimes: it is shown that the maximally symmetric spacetimes are also the only spacetimes that can be written in both orthogonal-time isotropic form and in static form. 
0704.03266	Rotation and activity of pre-main-sequence stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Aleks Scholz (SUPA, University of St. Andrews), Jaime Coffey (University of British Columbia), Alexis Brandeker (Stockholm Observatory), Ray Jayawardhana (University of Toronto)	 Abstract: We present a study of rotation (vsini) and chromospheric activity (Halpha EW) based on an extensive set of high-resolution optical spectra obtained with MIKE on the 6.5m Magellan Clay telescope. Our targets are 74 F-M dwarfs in the young stellar associations Eta Cha, TW Hydrae, Beta Pic, and Tuc-Hor, spanning ages from 6 to 30 Myr. While the Halpha EW for most F and G stars are consistent with pure photospheric absorption, most K and M stars show chromospheric emission. By comparing Halpha EW in our sample to results in the literature, we see a clear evolutionary sequence: Chromospheric activity declines steadily from the T Tauri phase to the main sequence. Using activity as an age indicator, we find a plausible age range for the Tuc-Hor association of 10-40 Myr. Between 5 and 30 Myr, we do not see evidence for rotational braking in the total sample, thus angular momentum is conserved, in contrast to younger stars. This difference indicates a change in the rotational regulation at 5-10 Myr, possibly because disk braking cannot operate longer than typical disk lifetimes, allowing the objects to spin up. The rotation-activity relation is flat in our sample; in contrast to main-sequence stars, there is no linear correlation for slow rotators. We argue that this is because young stars generate their magnetic fields in a fundamentally different way from main-sequence stars, and not just the result of a saturated solar-type dynamo. By comparing our rotational velocities with published rotation periods for a subset of stars, we determine ages of 13 (7-20) Myr and 9 (7-17} Myr for the Eta Cha and TWA associations, respectively, consistent with previous estimates. Thus we conclude that stellar radii from evolutionary models by Baraffe et al. (1998) are in agreement with the observed radii within +-15%. (abridged) 
0704.03267	Radial density profiles of time-delay lensing galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. I. Read, P. Saha, A. V. Maccio	 Abstract: We present non-parametric radial mass profiles for ten QSO strong lensing galaxies. Five of the galaxies have profiles close to $\rho(r)\propto r^{-2}$, while the rest are closer to r^{-1}, consistent with an NFW profile. The former are all relatively isolated early-types and dominated by their stellar light. The latter --though the modeling code did not know this-- are either in clusters, or have very high mass-to-light, suggesting dark-matter dominant lenses (one is a actually pair of merging galaxies). The same models give $H_0^{-1} = 15.2_{-1.7}^{+2.5}\Gyr$ ($H_0 = 64_{-9}^{+8} \legacy$), consistent with a previous determination. When tested on simulated lenses taken from a cosmological hydrodynamical simulation, our modeling pipeline recovers both H_0 and $\rho(r)$ within estimated uncertainties. Our result is contrary to some recent claims that lensing time delays imply either a low H_0 or galaxy profiles much steeper than r^{-2}. We diagnose these claims as resulting from an invalid modeling approximation: that small deviations from a power-law profile have a small effect on lensing time-delays. In fact, as we show using using both perturbation theory and numerical computation from a galaxy-formation simulation, a first-order perturbation of an isothermal lens can produce a zeroth-order change in the time delays. 
0704.03268	2D Path Solutions from a Single Layer Excitable CNN Model	Robotics (cs.RO)	Authors:Koray Karahaliloglu	 Abstract: An easily implementable path solution algorithm for 2D spatial problems, based on excitable/programmable characteristics of a specific cellular nonlinear network (CNN) model is presented and numerically investigated. The network is a single layer bioinspired model which was also implemented in CMOS technology. It exhibits excitable characteristics with regionally bistable cells. The related response realizes propagations of trigger autowaves, where the excitable mode can be globally preset and reset. It is shown that, obstacle distributions in 2D space can also be directly mapped onto the coupled cell array in the network. Combining these two features, the network model can serve as the main block in a 2D path computing processor. The related algorithm and configurations are numerically experimented with circuit level parameters and performance estimations are also presented. The simplicity of the model also allows alternative technology and device level implementation, which may become critical in autonomous processor design of related micro or nanoscale robotic applications. 
0704.03269	Atmospheric Dynamics of Short-period Extra Solar Gas Giant Planets I:  Dependence of Night-Side Temperature on Opacity	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ian Dobbs-Dixon, D.N.C. Lin	 Abstract: More than two dozen short-period Jupiter-mass gas giant planets have been discovered around nearby solar-type stars in recent years, several of which undergo transits, making them ideal for the detection and characterization of their atmospheres. Here we adopt a three-dimensional radiative hydrodynamical numerical scheme to simulate atmospheric circulation on close-in gas giant planets. In contrast to the conventional GCM and shallow water algorithms, this method does not assume quasi hydrostatic equilibrium and it approximates radiation transfer from optically thin to thick regions with flux-limited diffusion. In the first paper of this series, we consider synchronously-spinning gas giants. We show that a full three-dimensional treatment, coupled with rotationally modified flows and an accurate treatment of radiation, yields a clear temperature transition at the terminator. Based on a series of numerical simulations with varying opacities, we show that the night-side temperature is a strong indicator of the opacity of the planetary atmosphere. Planetary atmospheres that maintain large, interstellar opacities will exhibit large day-night temperature differences, while planets with reduced atmospheric opacities due to extensive grain growth and sedimentation will exhibit much more uniform temperatures throughout their photosphere's. In addition to numerical results, we present a four-zone analytic approximation to explain this dependence. 
0704.03270	Hadronization in semi-inclusive deep-inelastic scattering on nuclei	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:The HERMES Collaboration: A. Airapetian, et al	 Abstract: A series of semi-inclusive deep-inelastic scattering measurements on deuterium, helium, neon, krypton, and xenon targets has been performed in order to study hadronization. The data were collected with the HERMES detector at the DESY laboratory using a 27.6 GeV positron or electron beam. Hadron multiplicities on nucleus A relative to those on the deuteron, R_A^h, are presented for various hadrons (\pi^+, \pi^-, \pi^0, K^+, K^-, p, and \bar{p}) as a function of the virtual-photon energy \nu, the fraction z of this energy transferred to the hadron, the photon virtuality Q^2, and the hadron transverse momentum squared p_t^2. The data reveal a systematic decrease of R_A^h with the mass number A for each hadron type h. Furthermore, R_A^h increases (decreases) with increasing values of \nu (z), increases slightly with increasing Q^2, and is almost independent of p_t^2, except at large values of p_t^2. For pions two-dimensional distributions also are presented. These indicate that the dependences of R_A^{\pi} on \nu and z can largely be described as a dependence on a single variable L_c, which is a combination of \nu and z. The dependence on L_c suggests in which kinematic conditions partonic and hadronic mechanisms may be dominant. The behaviour of R_A^{\pi} at large p_t^2 constitutes tentative evidence for a partonic energy-loss mechanism. The A-dependence of R_A^h is investigated as a function of \nu, z, and of L_c. It approximately follows an A^{\alpha} form with \alpha \approx 0.5 - 0.6. 
0704.03271	Constraining Models of Neutrino Mass and Neutrino Interactions with the  Planck Satellite	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Alexander Friedland, Kathryn M. Zurek, Sergei Bashinsky	 Abstract: In several classes of particle physics models -- ranging from the classical Majoron models, to the more recent scenarios of late neutrino masses or Mass-Varying Neutrinos -- one or more of the neutrinos are postulated to couple to a new light scalar field. As a result of this coupling, neutrinos in the early universe instead of streaming freely could form a self-coupled fluid, with potentially observable signatures in the Cosmic Microwave Background and the large scale structure of the universe. We re-examine the constraints on this scenario from the presently available cosmological data and investigate the sensitivity expected from the Planck satellite. In the first case, we find that the sensitivity strongly depends on which piece of data is used. The SDSS Main sample data, combined with WMAP and other data, disfavors the scenario of three coupled neutrinos at about the 3.5$\sigma$ confidence level, but also favors a high number of freely streaming neutrinos, with the best fit at 5.2. If the matter power spectrum is instead taken from the SDSS Large Red Galaxy sample, best fit point has 2.5 freely streaming neutrinos, but the scenario with three coupled neutrinos becomes allowed at $2\sigma$. In contrast, Planck alone will exclude even a single self-coupled neutrino at the $4.2\sigma$ confidence level, and will determine the total radiation at CMB epoch to $\Delta N_\nu^{eff} = ^{+0.5}_{-0.3}$ ($1\sigma$ errors). We investigate the robustness of this result with respect to the details of Planck's detector. This sensitivity to neutrino free-streaming implies that Planck will be capable of probing a large region of the Mass-Varying Neutrino parameter space. Planck may also be sensitive to a scale of neutrino mass generation as high as 1 TeV. 
0704.03272	Non-geometric fluxes as supergravity backgrounds	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Fernando Marchesano, Waldemar Schulgin	 Abstract: We consider examples of D=4 string theory vacua which, although globally non-geometric, admit a local description in terms of D=10 supergravity backgrounds. We analyze such backgrounds and find that the supersymmetry spinors vary non-trivially along the internal manifold, reproducing the interpolating supergravity solutions found by Frey and Grana. Finally, we propose a simple, local expression for non-geometric fluxes in terms of the internal spinors of the compactification. 
0704.03273	Forward and non-forward symplectic integrators in solving classical  dynamics problems	Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)	Authors:Siu A. Chin	 Abstract: Forward time step integrators are splitting algorithms with only positive splitting coefficients. When used in solving physical evolution equations, these positive coefficients correspond to positive time steps. Forward algorithms are essential for solving time-irreversible equations that cannot be evolved using backward time steps. However, forward integrators are also better in solving time-reversible equations of classical dynamics by tracking as closely as possible the physical trajectory. This work compares in detail various forward and non-forward fourth-order integrators using three, fourth, five and six force evaluations. In the case of solving the 2D Kepler orbit, all non-forward integrators are optimized by simply minimizing the size of their backward time steps. 
0704.03274	Nonradiative DKR processes: revisiting the theory. I. Unimode model	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Fabio DeMatteis, Mladen Georgiev	 Abstract: We are revisiting the efficiency problem of DKR nonradiative transitions at local electronic centers in polarizable solids. Following a brief survey, we formulate the general rate equations thereby defining the microscopic parameters controlling the nonradiative deexcitation. We also reproduce the quantum mechanical expressions for the energy conserving "horizontal transfer rates" to compare with the "verical transition rates" at various vibronic energy levels. 
0704.03275	Matter-wave interference in s-wave and p-wave Fermi condensates	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Wei Zhang, C. A. R. Sa de Melo	 Abstract: We discuss the time evolution and matter-wave interference of Fermi condensates on the BEC side of Feshbach resonances for s and p-wave superfluids, upon release from harmonic traps. In swave systems, where the order parameter is a complex scalar, we find that the interference patterns depend on the relative phase of the order parameters of the condensates. In p-wave systems involving the mixture of two-hyperfine states, we show that the interference pattern exhibits a polarization effect depending on the relative orientation of the two vector order parameters. Lastly, we also point out that p-wave Fermi condensates exhibit an anisotropic expansion, reflecting the spatial anisotropy of the underlying interaction between fermions and the orbital nature of the vector order parameter. Potential applications of our results include systems of ultra-cold atoms that exhibit p-wave Feshbach resonances such as 6Li or 40K. 
0704.03276	Feynman-Weinberg Quantum Gravity and the Extended Standard Model as a  Theory of Everything	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Frank J. Tipler	 Abstract: I argue that the (extended) Standard Model (SM) of particle physics and the renormalizable Feynman-Weinberg theory of quantum gravity comprise a theory of everything. I show that imposing the appropriate cosmological boundary conditions make the theory finite. The infinities that are normally renormalized away and the series divergence infinities are both eliminated by the same mechanism. Furthermore, this theory can resolve the horizon, flatness, and isotropy problems of cosmology. Joint mathematical consistency naturally yields a scale-free, Gaussian, adiabatic perturbation spectrum, and more matter than antimatter. I show that mathematical consistency of the theory requires the universe to begin at an initial singularity with a pure $SU(2)_L$ gauge field. I show that quantum mechanics requires this field to have a Planckian spectrum whatever its temperature. If this field has managed to survive thermalization to the present day, then it would be the CMBR. If so, then we would have a natural explanation for the dark matter and the dark energy. I show that isotropic ultrahigh energy (UHE) cosmic rays are explained if the CMBR is a pure $SU(2)_L$ gauge field. The $SU(2)_L$ nature of the CMBR may have been seen in the Sunyaev-Zel'dovich effect. I propose several simple experiments to test the hypothesis. 
0704.03277	Tachyons and superluminal boosts	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:M. Ibison	 Abstract: Some arguments in favour of the existence of tachyons and extensions of the Lorentz Group are presented. On the former, it is observed that with a slight modification to standard electromagnetic theory a single superluminal charge will bind to itself in a self-sustaining circular orbit, suggestive of a (modified) electromagnetic interpretation of the strong force. Symmetries in that theory are used in the subsequent analysis as a starting point in the search for physically-motivated extensions of the Lorentz Group. There is some discussion of the validity of imaginary coordinates in superluminal transformations of frame. The article concludes with some speculation on the implications for faster-than light travel. 
0704.03278	Zeroth Hochschild homology of preprojective algebras over the integers	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Travis Schedler	 Abstract: We determine the Z-module structure of the preprojective algebra and its zeroth Hochschild homology, for any non-Dynkin quiver (and hence the structure working over any base commutative ring, of any characteristic). This answers (and generalizes) a conjecture of Hesselholt and Rains, producing new $p$-torsion classes in degrees 2p^l, l >= 1, We relate these classes by p-th power maps and interpret them in terms of the kernel of Verschiebung maps from noncommutative Witt theory. An important tool is a generalization of the Diamond Lemma to modules over commutative rings, which we give in the appendix. In the previous version, additional results are included, such as: the Poisson center of $\text{Sym } HH_0(\Pi)$ for all quivers, the BV algebra structure on Hochschild cohomology, including how the Lie algebra structure $HH_0(\Pi_Q)$ naturally arises from it, and the cyclic homology groups of $\Pi_Q$. 
0704.03279	Un-renormalized Classical Electromagnetism	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:M. Ibison	 Abstract: This paper follows in the tradition of direct-action versions of electromagnetism having the aim of avoiding a balance of infinities wherein a mechanical mass offsets an infinite electromagnetic mass so as to arrive at a finite observed value. Given that, in this respect the direct-action approached ultimately failed because its initial exclusion of self-action was found to be untenable in the relativistic domain, this paper continues the tradition considering instead a version of electromagnetism wherein mechanical action is excluded and self-action is retained. It is shown that the resulting theory is effectively interacting due to the presence of infinite forces. A vehicle for the investigation is a pair of classical point charges in a positronium-like arrangement for which the orbits are found to be self-sustaining and naturally quantized. 
0704.03280	Local structure of the moduli space of K3 surfaces over finite  characteristic	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Jeng-Daw Yu	 Abstract: Let k be a perfect field of characteristic p > 2. In this note, we show that the local moduli space of a non-supersingular K3 surface over k with trivial deformation of the associated enlarged formal Brauer group admits a natural p-divisible formal group structure. 
0704.03281	Density Estimation of Censored Data with Infinite-Order Kernels	Statistics Theory (math.ST)	Authors:Arthur Berg, Dimitris N. Politis	 Abstract: Higher-order accurate density estimation under random right censorship is achieved using kernel estimators from a family of infinite-order kernels. A compatible bandwidth selection procedure is also proposed that automatically adapts to level of smoothness of the underlying lifetime density. The combination of infinite-order kernels with the new bandwidth selection procedure produces a considerably improved estimate of the lifetime density and hazard function surpassing the performance of competing estimators. Infinite-order estimators are also utilized in a secondary manner as pilot estimators in the plug-in approach for bandwidth choice in second-order kernels. Simulations illustrate the improved accuracy of the proposed estimator against other nonparametric estimators of the density and hazard function. 
0704.03282	Production of TeV gamma-radiation in the vicinity of the supermassive  black hole in the giant radiogalaxy M87	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A.Neronov, F.Aharonian	 Abstract: Although the giant radiogalaxy M 87 harbors many distinct regions of broad-band nonthermal emission, the recently reported fast variability of TeV gamma rays from M 87 on a timescale of days strongly constrains the range of speculations concerning the possible sites and scenarios of particle acceleration responsible for the observed TeV emission. A natural production site of this radiation is the immediate vicinity of the central supermassive mass black hole (BH). Because of the low bolometric luminosity, the nucleus of M 87 is effectively transparent for gamma rays up to energy of 10 TeV, which makes this source an ideal laboratory for study of particle acceleration processes close to the BH event horizon. We critically analyse different possible radiation mechanisms in this region, and argue that the observed very high-energy gamma ray emission can be explained by the inverse Compton emission of ultrarelativistic electron-positron pairs produced through the development of an electromagnetic cascade in the BH magnetosphere. We demonstrate, through detailed numerical calculations of acceleration and radiation of electrons in the magnetospheric vacuum gap, that this ``pulsar magnetosphere like'' scenario can satisfactorily explain the main properties of TeV gamma-ray emission of M 87. 
0704.03283	Glicci simplicial complexes	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:Uwe Nagel, Tim Roemer	 Abstract: One of the main open questions in liaison theory is whether every homogeneous Cohen-Macaulay ideal in a polynomial ring is glicci, i.e. if it is in the G-liaison class of a complete intersection. We give an affirmative answer to this question for Stanley-Reisner ideals defined by simplicial complexes that are weakly vertex-decomposable. This class of complexes includes matroid, shifted and Gorenstein complexes respectively. Moreover, we construct a simplicial complex which shows that the property of being glicci depends on the characteristic of the base field. As an application of our methods we establish new evidence for two conjectures of Stanley on partitionable complexes and on Stanley decompositions. 
0704.03284	Symmetry Breaking in Linearly Coupled Dynamical Lattices	Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)	Authors:G. Herring, P.G. Kevrekidis, B.A. Malomed, R. Carretero-Gonzalez, D.J. Frantzeskakis	 Abstract: We examine one- and two-dimensional (1D and 2D) models of linearly coupled lattices of the discrete-nonlinear-Schr{\"{o}}dinger type. Analyzing ground states of the systems with equal powers in the two components, we find a symmetry-breaking phenomenon beyond a critical value of the squared $l^2$-norm. Asymmetric states, with unequal powers in their components, emerge through a subcritical pitchfork bifurcation, which, for very weakly coupled lattices, changes into a supercritical one. We identify the stability of various solution branches. Dynamical manifestations of the symmetry breaking are studied by simulating the evolution of the unstable branches. The results present the first example of spontaneous symmetry breaking in 2D lattice solitons. This feature has no counterpart in the continuum limit, because of the collapse instability in the latter case. 
0704.03285	Inflationary Cosmology Connecting Dark Energy and Dark Matter	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Daniel J. H. Chung, Lisa L. Everett, Konstantin T. Matchev	 Abstract: Kination dominated quintessence models of dark energy have the intriguing feature that the relic abundance of thermal cold dark matter can be significantly enhanced compared to the predictions from standard cosmology. Previous treatments of such models do not include a realistic embedding of inflationary initial conditions. We remedy this situation by constructing a viable inflationary model in which the inflaton and quintessence field are the same scalar degree of freedom. Kination domination is achieved after inflation through a strong push or "kick" of the inflaton, and sufficient reheating can be achieved depending on model parameters. This allows us to explore both model-dependent and model-independent cosmological predictions of this scenario. We find that measurements of the B-mode CMB polarization can rule out this class of scenarios almost model independently. We also discuss other experimentally accessible signatures for this class of models. 
0704.03286	Milnor Invariants for Spatial Graphs	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Thomas Fleming	 Abstract: Link homotopy has been an active area of research for knot theorists since its introduction by Milnor in the 1950s. We introduce a new equivalence relation on spatial graphs called component homotopy, which reduces to link homotopy in the classical case. Unlike previous attempts at generalizing link homotopy to spatial graphs, our new relation allows analogues of some standard link homotopy results and invariants. In particular we can define a type of Milnor group for a spatial graph under component homotopy, and this group determines whether or not the spatial graph is splittable. More surprisingly, we will also show that whether the spatial graph is splittable up to component homotopy depends only on the link homotopy class of the links contained within it. Numerical invariants of the relation will also be produced. 
0704.03287	Sample size cognizant detection of signals in white noise	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:N. Raj Rao, Alan Edelman	 Abstract: The detection and estimation of signals in noisy, limited data is a problem of interest to many scientific and engineering communities. We present a computationally simple, sample eigenvalue based procedure for estimating the number of high-dimensional signals in white noise when there are relatively few samples. We highlight a fundamental asymptotic limit of sample eigenvalue based detection of weak high-dimensional signals from a limited sample size and discuss its implication for the detection of two closely spaced signals. This motivates our heuristic definition of the 'effective number of identifiable signals.' Numerical simulations are used to demonstrate the consistency of the algorithm with respect to the effective number of signals and the superior performance of the algorithm with respect to Wax and Kailath's "asymptotically consistent" MDL based estimator. 
0704.03288	Discovery of new faint radio emission on 8$\arcdeg$ to 3$\arcmin$ scales  in the Coma field, and some Galactic and extragalactic implications	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P.P. Kronberg, R. Kothes, C.J. Salter, P. Perillat	 Abstract: We present a deep, 8$\degr$ diameter, 0.4 GHz radio image using a first time combination of the NAIC Arecibo 305-m telescope in Puerto Rico, and the wide-angle interferometer at the Dominion Radio Astrophysical Observatory at Penticton, Canada. Our observations are centered on the Coma Cluster of galaxies in the ``Great Wall'' of galaxies near the North Galactic Pole. The complementary nature of these two instruments enables us to produce a distortion-free image that is sensitive to radiation on scales from 8$\degr$ down to that of an individual galaxy halo at the 100 Mpc distance of the Great Wall. Newly revealed patches of distributed radio ``glow'' are seen well above the detection limit. One prominent such area coincides with groupings of radio galaxies near the Coma cluster, and indicates intergalactic IGM magnetic fields in the range 0.2 to 0.4 $\mu$G on scales of up to $\sim$ 4 Mpc. Other patches of diffuse emission, not previously explored at these high latitudes on arcminute scales, probably contain Galactic ``cirrus''. A striking anticorrelation is found between low-level diffuse radio glow and some regions of enhanced optical galaxy surface density, suggesting that cosmological Large Scale Structure (LSS), normally defined by the baryonic (or dark) matter density, is not {\it uniquely} traced by faint continuum radio glow. Rather, intergalactic diffuse synchrotron radiation represents IGM magnetic and Cosmic ray energy density, instead of matter density. The diffuse, arcminute-level structures over a large region of sky are potentially important pathfinders to CMB foreground radiation on high multipole scales. 
0704.03289	Dynamical "breaking" of time reversal symmetry and converse quantum  ergodicity	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:Boris Gutkin	 Abstract: It is a common assumption that quantum systems with time reversal invariance and classically chaotic dynamics have energy spectra distributed according to GOE-type of statistics. Here we present a class of systems which fail to follow this rule. We show that for convex billiards of constant width with time reversal symmetry and "almost" chaotic dynamics the energy level distribution is of GUE-type. The effect is due to the lack of ergodicity in the "momentum" part of the phase space and, as we argue, is generic in two dimensions. Besides, we show that certain billiards of constant width in multiply connected domains are of interest in relation to the quantum ergodicity problem. These billiards are quantum ergodic, but not classically ergodic. 
0704.03290	Residual correlations between decay products of $π^0π^0$ and  $pΣ^0$ systems	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:A. Stavinskiy, K. Mikhailov, B. Erazmus, R. Lednicky	 Abstract: Residual correlations between decay products due to a combination of both correlations between parents at small relative velocities and small decay momenta are discussed. Residual correlations between photons from pion decays are considered as a new possible source of information on direct photon fraction. Residual correlations in $p\gamma$ and $p\Lambda$ systems due to $p\Sigma^0$ interaction in final state are predicted based on the $p\Sigma^0$ low energy scattering parameters deduced from the spin-flavour SU$_6$ model by Fujiwara et al. including effective meson exchange potentials and explicit flavour symmetry breaking to reproduce the properties of the two-nucleon system and the low-energy hyperon-nucleon cross section data. The $p\gamma_{\Sigma^0}$ residual correlation is concentrated at $k^* \approx 70$ Mev/$c$ and its shape and intensity appears to be sensitive to the scattering parameters and space-time dimensions of the source. The $p\Lambda_{\Sigma^0}$ residual correlation recovers the negative parent $p\Sigma^0$ correlation for $k^* > 70$ Mev/$c$. The neglect of this negative residual correlation would lead to the underestimation of the parent $p\Lambda$ correlation effect and to an overestimation of the source size. 
0704.03291	Double Point Contact in the k=3 Read-Rezayi State	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Lukasz Fidkowski	 Abstract: We compute the dependence of the tunneling current in a double point contact in the k=3 Read-Rezayi state (which is conjectured to describe an incompressible quantum hall fluid at filling fraction nu=12/5) on voltage, separation between the two contacts, and temperature. Using the tunneling hamiltonian of cond-mat/0607431, we show that the effect of quasiholes in the bulk region between the two contacts is simply an overall constant multiplying the interference term. This is the same effect as found for the differential conductivity in cond-mat/0601242; the difference is that we do an actual edge theory calculation and compute the full current-voltage curve at weak tunneling. 
0704.03292	Coalition Games with Cooperative Transmission: A Cure for the Curse of  Boundary Nodes in Selfish Packet-Forwarding Wireless Networks	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Zhu Han, H. Vincent Poor	 Abstract: In wireless packet-forwarding networks with selfish nodes, applications of a repeated game can induce the nodes to forward each others' packets, so that the network performance can be improved. However, the nodes on the boundary of such networks cannot benefit from this strategy, as the other nodes do not depend on them. This problem is sometimes known as the curse of the boundary nodes. To overcome this problem, an approach based on coalition games is proposed, in which the boundary nodes can use cooperative transmission to help the backbone nodes in the middle of the network. In return, the backbone nodes are willing to forward the boundary nodes' packets. The stability of the coalitions is studied using the concept of a core. Then two types of fairness, namely, the min-max fairness using nucleolus and the average fairness using the Shapley function are investigated. Finally, a protocol is designed using both repeated games and coalition games. Simulation results show how boundary nodes and backbone nodes form coalitions together according to different fairness criteria. The proposed protocol can improve the network connectivity by about 50%, compared with pure repeated game schemes. 
0704.03293	Reconstruction for models on random graphs	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Antoine Gerschenfeld, Andrea Montanari	 Abstract: Consider a collection of random variables attached to the vertices of a graph. The reconstruction problem requires to estimate one of them given `far away' observations. Several theoretical results (and simple algorithms) are available when their joint probability distribution is Markov with respect to a tree. In this paper we consider the case of sequences of random graphs that converge locally to trees. In particular, we develop a sufficient condition for the tree and graph reconstruction problem to coincide. We apply such condition to colorings of random graphs. Further, we characterize the behavior of Ising models on such graphs, both with attractive and random interactions (respectively, `ferromagnetic' and `spin glass'). 
0704.03294	AGN Variability Surveys: DASCH from BATSS to EXIST	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jonathan E. Grindlay	 Abstract: Active galactic nuclei (AGN) are variable on a wide range of timescales, though relatively few systematic variability surveys have been conducted. Previous broad-band (both spectral and temporal) variability surveys of AGN are limited in their temporal and spectral bandwidth, despite their promise for probing the central engine and black hole mass. We outline optimal properties for variability studies and provide a brief summary of three new variability surveys, two (BATSS and DASCH) about to begin and the third (EXIST) possible within the next decade, which will open new windows on the physics and fundamental properties of AGN. 
0704.03295	Cargese lectures on string theory with eight supercharges	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Monica Guica, Andrew Strominger	 Abstract: These lectures give an introduction to the interrelated topics of Calabi-Yau compactification of the type II string, black hole attractors, the all-orders entropy formula, the dual (0,4) CFT, topological strings and the OSV conjecture. Based on notes by MG of lectures by AS at the 2006 Cargese summer school. 
0704.03296	Formation of C- by radiative association	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. Campos, A. Lipovka, J. Saucedo	 Abstract: In the present paper the problem of the radiative association of atoms of carbon C with electrons $e^{-}$ for kinetic temperatures $T_{c}$ of $100 < T_{c} < 3000$ K is considered. The calculation of the rate rate constant of the radiative associations is made with principle of detailed balance. It is shown that the rate has correct behavior (it increase with the temperature) and its behavior is look-like that for the $H^{-}$ formation rate coefficient, which also increase with the temperature. 
0704.03297	Breaking a quantum key distribution system through a timing side channel	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Antia Lamas-Linares, Christian Kurtsiefer	 Abstract: The security of quantum key distribution relies on the validity of quantum mechanics as a description of nature and on the non-existence of leaky degrees of freedom in the practical implementations. We experimentally demonstrate how, in some implementations, timing information revealed during public discussion between the communicating parties can be used by an eavesdropper to undetectably access a significant portion of the ``secret'' key. 
0704.03298	A Perverse Sheaf Approach Toward a Cohomology Theory for String Theory	Algebraic Topology (math.AT)	Authors:Abdul Rahman	 Abstract: We present the construction and properties of a self-dual perverse sheaf S_0 whose cohomology fulfills some of the requirements of String theory as outlined by T. Hubsch in hep-th/9612075. The construction of this S_0 utilizes techniques that follow from MacPherson-Vilonen (Inv. Math. vol. 84, pp. 403-435, 1986). Finally, we will discuss its properties as they relate to String theory. 
0704.03299	D_{s0}^+(2317) as an Iso-triplet Four-quark Meson and Production of Its  Neutral and Doubly Charged Partners	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Kunihiko Terasaki	 Abstract: By studying the decays D_{s0}^+(2317) --> D_s^+ pi^0 and D_s^{*+} gamma, It is shown that its assignment to the I_3=0 component of iso-triplet scalar four-quark mesons is favored. Productions of its neutral and doubly charged partners are also studied. As the result, it is concluded that they could be observed in B decays. Their iso-singlet partner might have been observed in the radiative channels of B decays by the BELLE Collaboration. 
0704.03300	The effect of dissipation on quantum transmission resonance	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Kohkichi Konno, Munehiro Nishida, Satoshi Tanda, Noriyuki Hatakenaka	 Abstract: Quantum transmissions of a free particle passing through a rectangular potential barrier with dissipation are studied using a path decomposition technique. Dissipative processes strongly suppress the transmission probability at resonance just above the barrier resulting in an unexpected reduction of the mean traversal time through the potential barrier. 
0704.03301	Looking beyond the horizon	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Eugeny Babichev, Viatcheslav Mukhanov, Alexander Vikman	 Abstract: In this short talk we review our results from the paper hep-th/0604075 with the main stress on the issues of causality and acoustic metric in eikonal approximation. In addition we correct the formula for the redshift of sound signals from our original work. We show that, if there exists a special kind of Born-Infeld type scalar field, then one can send information from inside a black hole. This information is encoded in perturbations of the field propagating in non-trivial scalar field backgrounds, which serve as a "new ether". Although the action of the theory is manifestly Lorentz-invariant the non-trivial solutions break this symmetry spontaneously, allowing, the superluminal propagation of perturbations with respect to this "new ether". We found the stationary solution for background, which describes the accretion of the scalar field onto a black hole. Examining the propagation of small perturbations around this solution we show that the signals emitted inside the Schwarzschild horizon can reach an observer located outside the black hole. Thus the accreting field forms a hydrodynamical analog of a black hole whose horizon is inside of the gravitational black hole drawing in the scalar field. 
0704.03302	Solitary and shock waves in discrete double power-law materials	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:E.B. Herbold, V.F. Nesterenko	 Abstract: A novel strongly nonlinear laminar metamaterial supporting new types of solitary and shock waves with impact energy mitigating capabilities is presented. It consists of steel plates with intermittent polymer toroidal rings acting as strongly nonlinear springs with large allowable strain. Their force-displacement relationship is described by the addition of two power-law relationships resulting in a solitary wave speed and width depending on the amplitude. This double nonlinearity allows splitting of an initial impulse into two separate strongly nonlinear solitary wave trains. Solitary and shock waves are observed experimentally and analyzed numerically in an assembly with Teflon o-rings. 
0704.03303	ASTROD I Charging Simulation and Disturbances	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Gang Bao, D N A Shaul, H M Araujo, Wei-Tou Ni, T J Sumner, Lei Liu	 Abstract: ASTROD I is planned as a single spacecraft mission. It will use interferometric and pulse ranging techniques between the spacecraft and ground stations, to make high precision measurements of the parameters that describe the solar system, and to test relativistic gravity with improved accuracy. At the heart of the spacecraft is a test mass, which the spacecraft will follow using a drag-free control system. The mission critically depends on maintaining the geodesic motion of the test mass. Charging of the test mass due to cosmic rays and solar particles will disturb its geodesic motion. We have modelled the charging process using the GEANT4 toolkit and a simplified, geometrical model and estimate that the ASTROD I test mass will charge positively, at a rate of 24 +/-7 e+/s, due to cosmic ray protons and alpha particles (3He and 4He) at solar minimum. We have used the results of this simulation to estimate the magnitude of disturbances associated with test mass charging, for the worst-case scenario, taking into account uncertainties in the model and potential charging contributions from minor cosmic-ray components. 
0704.03304	On the Marginal Distributions of Stationary AR(1) Sequences	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:S Satheesh, E Sandhya	 Abstract: In this note we correct an omission in our paper (Satheesh and Sandhya, 2005) in defining semi-selfdecomposable laws and also show with examples that the marginal distributions of a stationary AR(1) process need not even be infinitely divisible. 
0704.03305	Orbital magnetization and its effects in spin-chiral ferromagnetic  Kagome lattice	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Zhigang Wang, Ping Zhang	 Abstract: Recently, Berry phase in the semiclassical dynamical of Bloch electrons has been found to make a correction to the phase-space density of states and a general multi-band formula for finite-temperature orbital magnetization has been given [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{97}, 026603 (2006)], where the orbital magnetization $\mathcal{M}$ consists of two parts, i.e., the conventional part $M_{c}$ and the Berry-phase correction part $M_{\Omega}$. Using this general formula, we theoretically investigate the orbital magnetization and its effects on thermoelectric transport and magnetic susceptibility properties of the two-dimensional \textit{kagom\'{e}} lattice with spin anisotropies included. The study in this paper is highly interesting by the occurrence of nonzero Chern number in the lattice. The spin chirality parameter $\phi$ (see text) results in profound effects on the orbital magnetization properties. It is found that the two parts in orbital magnetization opposite each other. In particular, we show that $M_{c}$ and $M_{\Omega}$ yield the paramagnetic and diamagnetic responses, respectively. It is further shown that the orbital magnetization displays fully different behavior in the metallic and insulating regions, which is due to the different roles $M_{c}$ and $M_{\Omega}$ play in these two regions. The anomalous Nernst conductivity is also calculated, which displays a peak-valley structure as a function of the electron Fermi energy. 
0704.03306	Quantum mechanics on Hilbert manifolds: The principle of functional  relativity	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Alexey A. Kryukov	 Abstract: Quantum mechanics is formulated as a geometric theory on a Hilbert manifold. Images of charts on the manifold are allowed to belong to arbitrary Hilbert spaces of functions including spaces of generalized functions. Tensor equations in this setting, also called functional tensor equations, describe families of functional equations on various Hilbert spaces of functions. The principle of functional relativity is introduced which states that quantum theory is indeed a functional tensor theory, i.e., it can be described by functional tensor equations. The main equations of quantum theory are shown to be compatible with the principle of functional relativity. By accepting the principle as a hypothesis, we then analyze the origin of physical dimensions, provide a geometric interpretation of Planck's constant, and find a simple interpretation of the two-slit experiment and the process of measurement. 
0704.03307	Pressure induced magnetic ordering in Yb2Pd2Sn with two quantum critical  points	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Takaki Muramatsu, Taisuke Kanemasa, Ernst Bauer, Mauro Giiovannini, Tomoko Kagayama, Katsuya Shimizu	 Abstract: Pressure induced long range antiferromagnetic order is discovered in Yb2Pd2Sn by measuring the electrical resistivity under pressure up to 5.0 GPa. Magnetic ordering is observed above about 1.0 GPa, being the lowest pressure in Yb-intermetallics showing pressure induced magnetic ordering, Unexpectedly, ordering disappears above about 4.0 GPa, giving rise to the first observation of the appearance of two quantum critical points persisting in a broad range of pressure within a single material. 
0704.03308	Instantons, Hypermultiplets and the Heterotic String	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Nick Halmagyi, Ilarion V. Melnikov, Savdeep Sethi	 Abstract: Hypermultiplet couplings in type IIA string theory on a Calabi-Yau space can be quantum corrected by D2-brane instantons wrapping special Lagrangian cycles. On the other hand, hypermultiplet couplings in the heterotic string on a K3 surface are corrected by world-sheet instantons wrapping curves. In a class of examples, we relate these two sets of instanton corrections. We first present an analogue of the c-map for the heterotic string via a dual flux compactification of M-theory. Using this duality, we propose two ways of capturing quantum corrections to hypermultiplets. We then use the orientifold limit of certain F-theory compactifications to relate curves in K3 to special Lagrangians in dual type IIA compactifications. We conclude with some results from perturbative string theory for hypermultiplet F-terms and a conjecture about the topology of brane instantons. 
0704.03309	Singularities of Schröder maps and unhyperbolicity of rational  functions	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:David Drasin, Yûsuke Okuyama	 Abstract: We study transcendental singularities of a Schr\"oder map arising from a rational function $f$, using results from complex dynamics and Nevanlinna theory. These maps are transcendental meromorphic functions of finite order in the complex plane. We show that their transcendental singularities lie over the set where $f$ is not semihyperbolic (unhyperbolic). In addition, if they are direct, then they lie over only attracting periodic points of $f$, and moreover, if $f$ is a polynomial, then both direct and indirect singularities lie over attracting, parabolic and Cremer periodic points of $f$. We also obtain concrete examples of both kinds of transcendental singularities of Schr\"oder maps as well as a new proof of the Pommerenke-Levin-Yoccoz inequality and a new formulation of the Fatou conjecture. 
0704.03310	PVLAS experiment, star cooling and BBN constraints: Possible  interpretation with temperature dependent gauge symmetry breaking	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Jihn E. Kim	 Abstract: It is known that the kinetic mixing of photon and another U(1)_ex gauge boson can introduce millicharged particles. Millicharged particles $f$ of mass 0.1 eV can explain the PVLAS experiment. We suggest a temperature dependent gauge symmetry breaking of U(1)_ex for this idea to be consistent with astrophysical and cosmological constraints. 
0704.03311	rho(omega)-> pi^0 pi^0 gamma, rho(omega) -> eta pi^0 gamma decays in the  local quark Nambu--Jona-Lasinio model	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:A. E. Radzhabov, M. K. Volkov, N. G. Kornakov	 Abstract: The branching ratios and photon spectra of the rare processes rho(omega)-> pi^0 pi^0 gamma, rho(omega) -> eta pi^0 gamma are calculated in the framework of the standard local quark Nambu--Jona-Lasinio (NJL) model. Three types of diagrams are considered: the quark box and the pole diagrams with scalar (sigma,a_0(980)) and vector (rho,omega) mesons. The obtained estimations for the widths of the processes rho(omega)-> pi^0 pi^0 gamma are in satisfactory agreement with existing experimental data. Predictions are made for the widths of the processes rho(omega) -> eta pi^0 gamma. 
0704.03312	Artificial Tongue-Placed Tactile Biofeedback for perceptual  supplementation: application to human disability and biomedical engineering	Medical Physics (physics.med-ph)	Authors:Nicolas Vuillerme (TIMC - IMAG), Olivier Chenu (TIMC - IMAG), Alexandre Moreau-Gaudry (TIMC - IMAG), Jacques Demongeot (TIMC - IMAG), Yohan Payan (TIMC - IMAG)	 Abstract: The present paper aims at introducing the innovative technologies, based on the concept of "sensory substitution" or "perceptual supplementation", we are developing in the fields of human disability and biomedical engineering. Precisely, our goal is to design, develop and validate practical assistive biomedical and/technical devices and/or rehabilitating procedures for persons with disabilities, using artificial tongue-placed tactile biofeedback systems. Proposed applications are dealing with: (1) pressure sores prevention in case of spinal cord injuries (persons with paraplegia, or tetraplegia); (2) ankle proprioceptive acuity improvement for driving assistance in older and/or disabled adults; and (3) balance control improvement to prevent fall in older and/or disabled adults. This paper presents results of three feasibility studies performed on young healthy adults. 
0704.03313	Straggler Identification in Round-Trip Data Streams via Newton's  Identities and Invertible Bloom Filters	Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)	Authors:David Eppstein, Michael T. Goodrich	 Abstract: We introduce the straggler identification problem, in which an algorithm must determine the identities of the remaining members of a set after it has had a large number of insertion and deletion operations performed on it, and now has relatively few remaining members. The goal is to do this in o(n) space, where n is the total number of identities. The straggler identification problem has applications, for example, in determining the set of unacknowledged packets in a high-bandwidth multicast data stream. We provide a deterministic solution to the straggler identification problem that uses only O(d log n) bits and is based on a novel application of Newton's identities for symmetric polynomials. This solution can identify any subset of d stragglers from a set of n O(log n)-bit identifiers, assuming that there are no false deletions of identities not already in the set. Indeed, we give a lower bound argument that shows that any small-space deterministic solution to the straggler identification problem cannot be guaranteed to handle false deletions. Nevertheless, we show that there is a simple randomized solution using O(d log n log(1/epsilon)) bits that can maintain a multiset and solve the straggler identification problem, tolerating false deletions, where epsilon>0 is a user-defined parameter bounding the probability of an incorrect response. This randomized solution is based on a new type of Bloom filter, which we call the invertible Bloom filter. 
0704.03314	Geometric structure of sumsets	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Jaewoo Lee	 Abstract: Given a finite set of lattice points, we compare its sumsets and lattice points in its dilated convex hulls. Both of these are known to grow as polynomials. Generally, the former are subsets of the latter. In this paper, we will see that sumsets occupy all the central lattice points in convex hulls, giving us a kind of approximation to lattice points in polytopes. 
0704.03315	Absolute Proper Motions of H2O Masers Away from the Galactic Plane  Measured with VERA in the "Superbubble" Region NGC 281	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Mayumi Sato, Tomoya Hirota, Mareki Honma, Hideyuki Kobayashi, Tetsuo Sasao, Takeshi Bushimata, Yoon Kyung Choi, Hiroshi Imai, Kenzaburo Iwadate, Takaaki Jike, Seiji Kameno, Osamu Kameya, Ryuichi Kamohara, Yukitoshi Kan-ya, Noriyuki Kawaguchi, Masachika Kijima, Mi Kyoung Kim, Seisuke Kuji, Tomoharu Kurayama, Seiji Manabe, Kenta Maruyama, Makoto Matsui, Naoko Matsumoto, Takeshi Miyaji, Takumi Nagayama, Akiharu Nakagawa, Kayoko Nakamura, Chung Sik Oh, Toshihiro Omodaka, Tomoaki Oyama, Satoshi Sakai, Katsuhisa Sato, Katsunori M. Shibata, Motonobu Shintani, Yoshiaki Tamura, Miyuki Tsushima, Kazuyoshi Yamashita	 Abstract: We report on absolute proper-motion measurements of an H2O maser source in the NGC 281 West molecular cloud, which is located ~320 pc above the Galactic plane and is associated with an HI loop extending from the Galactic plane. We have conducted multi-epoch phase-referencing observations of the maser source with VERA (VLBI Exploration of Radio Astrometry) over a monitoring period of 6 months since May 2006. We find that the H2O maser features in NGC 281 West are systematically moving toward the southwest and further away from the Galactic plane with a vertical velocity of ~20-30 km/s at its estimated distance of 2.2-3.5 kpc. Our new results provide the most direct evidence that the gas in the NGC 281 region on the HI loop was blown out from the Galactic plane, most likely in a superbubble driven by multiple or sequential supernova explosions in the Galactic plane. 
0704.03316	Vocabulary growth in collaborative tagging systems	Information Retrieval (cs.IR)	Authors:Ciro Cattuto, Andrea Baldassarri, Vito D. P. Servedio, Vittorio Loreto	 Abstract: We analyze a large-scale snapshot of del.icio.us and investigate how the number of different tags in the system grows as a function of a suitably defined notion of time. We study the temporal evolution of the global vocabulary size, i.e. the number of distinct tags in the entire system, as well as the evolution of local vocabularies, that is the growth of the number of distinct tags used in the context of a given resource or user. In both cases, we find power-law behaviors with exponents smaller than one. Surprisingly, the observed growth behaviors are remarkably regular throughout the entire history of the system and across very different resources being bookmarked. Similar sub-linear laws of growth have been observed in written text, and this qualitative universality calls for an explanation and points in the direction of non-trivial cognitive processes in the complex interaction patterns characterizing collaborative tagging. 
0704.03317	Reaction rate calculation by parallel path swapping	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Titus S. van Erp	 Abstract: The efficiency of path sampling simulations can be improved considerably using the approach of path swapping. For this purpose, we have devised a new algorithmic procedure based on the transition interface sampling technique. In the same spirit of parallel tempering, paths between different ensembles are swapped, but the role of temperature is here played by the interface position. We have tested the method on the denaturation transition of DNA using the Peyrard-Bishop-Dauxois model. We find that the new algorithm gives a reduction of the computational cost by a factor 20. 
0704.03318	A fluctuation theorem for currents and non-linear response coefficients	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:D. Andrieux, P. Gaspard	 Abstract: We use a recently proved fluctuation theorem for the currents to develop the response theory of nonequilibrium phenomena. In this framework, expressions for the response coefficients of the currents at arbitrary orders in the thermodynamic forces or affinities are obtained in terms of the fluctuations of the cumulative currents and remarkable relations are obtained which are the consequences of microreversibility beyond Onsager reciprocity relations. 
0704.03319	Experimental study of the coherent A1 phonons in Te with tailored  femtosecond pulses	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:O V Misochko, M V Lebedev, H Schaefer, T Dekorsy	 Abstract: We tailor the shape and phase of the pump pulse spectrum in order to study the coherent lattice dynamics in tellurium. Employing the coherent control via splitting the pump pulse into a two-pulse sequence, we show that the oscillations due to A1 coherent phonons can be cancelled but not enhanced as compared to single pulse excitation. We further demonstrate that a decisive factor for the coherent phonon generation is the bandwidth of the pulse spectrum and not the steepness of the pulse envelope. We also observe that the coherent amplitude for long pump pulses decreases exponentially independent of the shape of the pulse spectrum. Finally, by varying the pulse chirp, we show that the coherent amplitude is independent of while the oscillation lifetime is dependent on the chirp sign. 
0704.03320	Towards Antihydrogen Confinement with the ALPHA Antihydrogen Trap	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:M.C. Fujiwara (TRIUMF), G. Andresen, W. Bertsche, A. Boston, P. D. Bowe, C. L. Cesar, S. Chapman, M. Charlton, M. Chartier, A. Deutsch, J. Fajans, R. Funakoshi, D.R. Gill, K. Gomberoff, J.S. Hangst, W.N. Hardy, R.S. Hayano, R. Hydomako, M.J. Jenkins, L.V. Jorgensen, L. Kurchaninov, N. Madsen, P. Nolan, K. Olchanski, A. Olin, R.D. Page, A. Povilus, F. Robicheaux, E. Sarid, D.M. Silveira, J.W. Storey, R.I. Thompson, D.P. van der Werf, J.S. Wurtele, Y. Yamazaki	 Abstract: ALPHA is an international project that has recently begun experimentation at CERN's Antiproton Decelerator (AD) facility. The primary goal of ALPHA is stable trapping of cold antihydrogen atoms with the ultimate goal of precise spectroscopic comparisons with hydrogen. We discuss the status of the ALPHA project and the prospects for antihydrogen trapping. 
0704.03321	A generic mechanism for adaptive growth rate regulation	Molecular Networks (q-bio.MN)	Authors:Chikara Furusawa, Kunihiko Kaneko	 Abstract: How can a microorganism adapt to a variety of environmental conditions despite there exists a limited number of signal transduction machineries? We show that for any growing cells whose gene expression is under stochastic fluctuations, adaptive cellular state is inevitably selected by noise, even without specific signal transduction network for it. In general, changes in protein concentration in a cell are given by its synthesis minus dilution and degradation, both of which are proportional to the rate of cell growth. In an adaptive state with a higher growth speed, both terms are large and balanced. Under the presence of noise in gene expression, the adaptive state is less affected by stochasticity since both the synthesis and dilution terms are large, while for a non-adaptive state both the terms are smaller so that cells are easily kicked out of the original state by noise. Hence, escape time from a cellular state and the cellular growth rate are negatively correlated. This leads to a selection of adaptive states with higher growth rates, and model simulations confirm this selection to take place in general. The results suggest a general form of adaptation that has never been brought to light - a process that requires no specific machineries for sensory adaptation. The present scheme may help explain a wide range of cellular adaptive responses including the metabolic flux optimization for maximal cell growth. 
0704.03322	A Geometrical Approach towards Entanglement	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:B. Basu, P. Bandyopadhyay	 Abstract: We have studied the concurrence of two-site entanglement and have shown that it is related to the geometric phase accumulated due to a complete rotation of the entangled state. The geometric phase and hence the concurrence is evaluated for transverse Ising model and antiferromagnetic chain which is found to be in good agreement with that obtained by other methods. 
0704.03323	Charge and spin stripe in La$_{2-x}$Sr$_{x}$NiO$_{4}$ (x=1/3,1/2)	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:S. Yamamoto, T. Fujiwara, Y. Hatsugai	 Abstract: Electronic structure of stripe ordered La$_{2-x}$Sr$_{x}$NiO$_{4}$ is investigated. The system with x=1/3 is insulator, in LSDA+U calculations, and shows charge and spin stripe, consistent with the experimental results. Highly correlated system of x=1/2 is studied by using exact diagonalization of multi-orbital many body Hamiltonian derived from LDA calculations and including on-site and inter-site Coulomb interactions. The fluctuation of the residual spin on Ni$^{3+}$ (hole) site couples with the charge fluctuation between Ni$^{3+}$ and Ni$^{2+}$ states and this correlation lowers the total energy. The resultant ground state is insulator with charge and spin stripe of the energy gap 0.9eV, consistent with observed one. The on-site Coulomb interaction stabilizes integral valency of each Ni ion (Ni$^{3+}$ and Ni$^{2+}$), but does not induce the charge order. Two quantities, inter-site Coulomb interaction and anisotropy of hopping integrals, play an important role to form the charge and spin stripe order in a system of x=1/2. 
0704.03324	Using force covariance to derive effective stochastic interactions in  dissipative particle dynamics	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Anders Eriksson, Martin Nilsson Jacobi, Johan Nyström, Kolbjørn Tunstrøm	 Abstract: There exist methods for determining effective conservative interactions in coarse grained particle based mesoscopic simulations. The resulting models can be used to capture thermal equilibrium behavior, but in the model system we study do not correctly represent transport properties. In this article we suggest the use of force covariance to determine the full functional form of dissipative and stochastic interactions. We show that a combination of the radial distribution function and a force covariance function can be used to determine all interactions in dissipative particle dynamics. Furthermore we use the method to test if the effective interactions in dissipative particle dynamics (DPD) can be adjusted to produce a force covariance consistent with a projection of a microscopic Lennard-Jones simulation. The results indicate that the DPD ansatz may not be consistent with the underlying microscopic dynamics. We discuss how this result relates to theoretical studies reported in the literature. 
0704.03325	Thermodynamically stable noncomposite vortices in mesoscopic two-gap  superconductors	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:L.F. Chibotaru, V.H. Dao, A. Ceulemans	 Abstract: In mesoscopic two-gap superconductors with sizes of the order of the coherence length noncomposite vortices are found to be thermodynamically stable in a large domain of the $T - H$ phase diagram. In these phases the vortex cores of one condensate are spatially separated from the other condensate ones, and their respective distributions can adopt distinct symmetries. The appearance of these vortex phases is caused by a non-negligible effect of the boundary of the sample on the superconducting order parameter and represents therefore a genuine mesoscopic effect. For low values of interband Josephson coupling vortex patterns with $L_1 \neq L_2$ can arise in addition to the phases with $L_1 =L_2$, where $L_1$ and $L_2$ are total vorticities in the two condensates. The calculations show that noncomposite vortices could be observed in thin mesoscopic samples of MgB$_{2}$. 
0704.03326	Irreducible three-loop contributions to the pressure in Yang-Mills  thermodynamics	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Dariush Kaviani, Ralf Hofmann	 Abstract: In the effective theory for the deconfining phase of SU(2) Yang-Mills thermodynamics we compute estimates for the moduli of the irreducible three-loop diagrams contributing to the pressure. Our numerical results are in agreement with general expectations. 
0704.03327	Jet schemes, arc spaces and the Nash problem	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Shihoko Ishii	 Abstract: This paper is an introduction to the jet schemes and the arc space of an algebraic variety. We also introduce the Nash problem on arc families. 
0704.03328	A Subaru/Suprime-Cam Survey of M31's spheroid along the South-East minor  axis	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Mikito Tanaka, Masashi Chiba, Yutaka Komiyama, Masanori Iye, Puragra Guhathakurta	 Abstract: We have used Suprime-Cam on the Subaru Telescope to conduct a V- and I-band imaging survey of fields sampling the spheroid of the Andromeda galaxy along its south-east minor axis. Our photometric data are deep enough to resolve stars down to the red clump. Based on a large and reliable sample of red giant stars available from this deep wide-field imager, we have derived metallicity distributions vs. radius and a surface brightness profile over projected distances of R=23-66 kpc from the galaxy's center. The metallicity distributions across this region shows a clear high mean metallicity and a broad distribution ([Fe/H] ~ -0.6 +/- 0.5), and indicates no metallicity gradient within our observed range. The surface brightness profile at R>40 kpc is found to be flatter than previously thought. It is conceivable that this part of the halo samples as yet unidentified, metal-rich substructure. 
0704.03329	Correlations between epsilon'/epsilon and Rare K Decays in the Littlest  Higgs Model with T-Parity	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Monika Blanke, Andrzej J. Buras, Stefan Recksiegel, Cecilia Tarantino, Selma Uhlig	 Abstract: We calculate the CP-violating ratio epsilon'/epsilon in the Littlest Higgs model with T-parity (LHT) and investigate its correlations with the branching ratios for K_L -> pi^0 nu {bar nu}, K_L -> pi^0 l^+ l^- and K^+ -> pi^+ nu {bar nu}. The resulting correlations are rather strong in the case of K_L decays, but less pronounced in the case of K^+ -> pi^+ nu {bar nu}. Unfortunately, they are subject to large hadronic uncertainties present in epsilon'/epsilon, whose theoretical prediction in the Standard Model (SM) is reviewed and updated here. With the matrix elements of Q_6 (gluon penguin) and Q_8 (electroweak penguin) evaluated in the large-N limit and m_s^MS(2 GeV) = 100 MeV from lattice QCD, (epsilon'/epsilon)_SM turns out to be close to the data so that significant departures of Br(K_L -> pi^0 nu {bar nu}) and Br(K_L -> pi^0 l^+ l^-) from the SM expectations are unlikely, while Br(K^+ -> pi^+ nu {bar nu}) can be enhanced even by a factor 5. On the other hand, modest departures of the relevant hadronic matrix elements from their large-N values allow for a consistent description of epsilon'/epsilon within the LHT model accompanied by large enhancements of Br(K_L -> pi^0 nu {bar nu}) and Br(K_L -> pi^0 l^+ l^-), but only modest enhancements of Br(K^+ -> pi^+ nu {bar nu}). 
0704.03330	Interacting Energy Components and Observational $H(z)$ Data	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Hao Wei, Shuang Nan Zhang	 Abstract: In this note, we extend our previous work [Phys. Lett. B 644, 7 (2007), astro-ph/0609597], and compare eleven interacting dark energy models with different couplings to the observational $H(z)$ data. However, none of these models is better than the simplest $\Lambda$CDM model. This implies that either more exotic couplings are needed in the cosmological models with interaction between dark energy and dust matter, or {\em there is no interaction at all}. We consider that this result is disadvantageous to the interacting dark energy models studied extensively in the literature. 
0704.03331	Light nuclei in galactic globular clusters : constraints on the  self-enrichment scenario from nucleosynthesis	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nikos Prantzos (1), Corinne Charbonnel (2,3), Christian Iliadis (4) ((1) Institut d'Astrophysique de Paris and Univ. P. et M. Curie, (2) Geneva Observatory, (3)Laboratoire d'Astrophysique de Toulouse et Tarbes, (4) Dpt. of Physics and Astronomy, University of North Carolina)	 Abstract: Hydrogen-burning is the root cause of the star-to-star abundance variations of light nuclei in Galactic globular clusters (GC). In the present work we constrain the physical conditions that gave rise to the observed abundance patterns of Li, C, N, O, Na, Mg, Al, as well as Mg isotopes in the typical case of NGC6752. We perform nucleosynthesis calculations at constant temperature, adopting realistic initial abundances for the proto-cluster gas. We use a detailed nuclear reaction network and state-of-the-art nuclear reaction rates. Although simplistic, our analysis provides original results and new constraints on the self-enrichment scenario for GCs. Our parametrized calculations allow us to determine a narrow range of temperature where the observed extreme abundances of all light elements and isotopes in NGC6752 are nicely reproduced simultaneously. This agreement is obtained after mixing of the H-processed material with 30 % of unprocessed gas. The observed C-N, O-Na, Mg-Al, Li-Na and F-Na anticorrelations, as well as the behaviour of the Mg isotopes can be recovered by assuming mixing with even larger dilution factors. Li production by the stars that build up the other abundance anomalies is not mandatory in the case of NGC 6752. Observations of O, Na, Mg and Al constrain the temperature range for H-burning; such temperatures are encountered in the two main candidate ``polluters'' proposed for GCs, namely massive AGBs and the most massive main-sequence stars. (Abridged). 
0704.03332	Groups of diffeomorphisms and geometric loops of manifolds over  ultra-normed fields	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:S.V. Ludkovsky	 Abstract: The article is devoted to the investigation of groups of diffeomorphisms and loops of manifolds over ultra-metric fields of zero and positive characteristics. Different types of topologies are considered on groups of loops and diffeomorphisms relative to which they are generalized Lie groups or topological groups. Among such topologies pairwise incomparable are found as well. Topological perfectness of the diffeomorphism group relative to certain topologies is studied. There are proved theorems about projective limit decompositions of these groups and their compactifications for compact manifolds. Moreover, an existence of one-parameter local subgroups of diffeomorphism groups is investigated. 
0704.03333	The Low Frequency Sensitivity to Gravitational Waves for ASTROD	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Antonio Pulido Paton, Wei-Tou Ni	 Abstract: ASTROD is a relativity mission concept encompassing multi-purposes. One of its main purposes is to detect gravitational waves sensitive to low-frequency band similar to LISA, but shifted to lower frequencies. In this aspect, ASTROD would complement LISA in probing the Universe and study strong-field black hole physics. Since ASTROD will be after LISA, in the Cosmic Vision time-frame 2015-2025, a ten-fold improvement over LISA accelerometer noise goal would be possible, allowing us to test relativistic gravity to 1 ppb and improve the gravitational-wave sensitivity. In this paper, we address to this possible improvement, especially in the frequency range below 0.1 mHz. We look into possible thermal noise improvement, magnetic noise improvement, spurious discharging noise improvement and local gravitational noise improvement. We discuss various possibilities of lower-frequency gravitational-wave responses and their significance to potential astrophysical sources. 
0704.03334	Solutions for the constant quantum Yang-Baxter equation from Lie  (super)algebras	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:A. Tanasa (1), A. Ballesteros (2), F. J. Herranz (2) ((1) LPT Orsay, (2) Univ. Burgos)	 Abstract: We present a systematic procedure to obtain singular solutions of the constant quantum Yang-Baxter equation in arbitrary dimension. This approach, inspired in the Lie (super)algebra structure, is explicitly applied to the particular case of (graded) contractions of the orthogonal real algebra ${\mathfrak{so}}(N+1)$. In this way we show that "classical" contraction parameters which appear in the commutation relations of the contracted Lie algebras, become quantum deformation parameters, arising as entries of the resulting quantum $R$-matrices. 
0704.03335	Lift of noninvariant solutions of heavenly equations from three to four  dimensions and new ultra-hyperbolic metrics	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:A. A. Malykh (North Western State Technical University, St. Petersburg, Russia), Y. Nutku (Feza Gursey Institute, Istanbul, Turkey), M. B. Sheftel (Bogazici University, Istanbul, Turkey)	 Abstract: We demonstrate that partner symmetries provide a lift of noninvariant solutions of three-dimensional Boyer-Finley equation to noninvariant solutions of four-dimensional hyperbolic complex Monge-Ampere equation. The lift is applied to noninvariant solutions of the Boyer-Finley equation, obtained earlier by the method of group foliation, to yield noninvariant solutions of the hyperbolic complex Monge-Ampere equation. Using these solutions we construct new Ricci-flat ultra-hyperbolic metrics with non-zero curvature tensor that have no Killing vectors. 
0704.03336	Revisiting the effect of nearby supernova remnants on local cosmic rays	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Satyendra Thoudam	 Abstract: In an earlier paper, the effect of the nearby known supernova remnants (SNRs) on the local cosmic-rays (CRs) was studied, considering different possible forms of the particle injection time. The present work is a continuation of the previous work, but assumes a more realistic model of CR propagation in the Galaxy. The previous work assumed an unbounded three-dimensional diffusion region, whereas the present one considers a flat cylindrical disc bounded in both the radial and vertical directions. The study has found that the effect of the vertical halo boundary $H$ on the local SNR contribution to the observed CR anisotropy is negligible as long as $H\gtrsim 2kpc$. Considering the values of the halo height $H\gtrsim 2kpc$ obtained by different authors, the present work suggests that the study of the effect of local sources on the CR anisotropy can be carried out without having much information on $H$ and hence, using the much simpler three-dimentional unbounded solution. Finally, the present work discusses about the possibility of explaining the observed anisotropy below the knee by a single dominant source with properly chosen source parameters, and claims that the source may be an \textit{undetected} old SNR with a characteristic age of $\sim 1.5\times 10^5 yr$ located at a distance of $\sim 0.57 kpc$ from the Sun. 
0704.03337	The Blazhko behaviour of RR Geminorum II -- long-term photometric  results	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Á. Sódor, B. Szeidl, J. Jurcsik	 Abstract: Context. RR Gem is one of the few Blazhko RR Lyrae that has photometric observations available extended enough to study the long-term courses of its pulsation and modulation properties in detail. Aims. We investigate the pulsation and modulation properties and the relations between them in RR Gem using photometric observations from the past 70 years in order to gain further insight into the nature of the Blazhko modulation. Methods. We studied the photographic, photoelectric, and CCD light curves obtained at the Konkoly Observatory and other authors' published maxima observations. Detailed analysis of the light curves, maximum brightness, and O-C data are carried out. Results. RR Gem showed modulation most of the time it was observed. The modulation amplitude showed strong variations from the undetectable level (less than 0.04 mag in maximum brightness) to about 0.20 mag. The amplitudes of the amplitude and phase modulations showed parallel changes, thus the total 'power' of the modulation have changed during the past 70 years. Parallel changes in the pulsation and modulation periods occur with a d P_mod / d P_puls = 1.6 +/- 0.8 * 10^3 ratio. We also detected 0.05-0.1 mag changes in the mean maximum brightness and mean pulsation amplitude. 
0704.03338	Gravitomagnetism, Frame-Dragging and Lunar Laser Ranging	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Ignazio Ciufolini	 Abstract: We discuss here the measurement of gravitomagnetism and frame dragging with Lunar Laser Ranging, LAGEOS and LARES Satellites, and Gravity Probe B. 
0704.03339	Generators of Jacobians of Hyperelliptic Curves	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Christian Robenhagen Ravnshoj	 Abstract: This paper provides a probabilistic algorithm to determine generators of the m-torsion subgroup of the Jacobian of a hyperelliptic curve of genus two. 
0704.03340	Production of Higgs boson excitations of universal extra dimension at  the Large Hadron Collider	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Biplob Bhattacherjee, Anirban Kundu	 Abstract: The Kaluza-Klein excitations of the Higgs bosons of the universal extra dimension model are extremely challenging to detect. We discuss the production and possible detection mechanisms of such excited scalars at the LHC. The dominant production mechanism of such scalars is from the decay of the excited third generation quarks. In particular, the charged Higgs boson has a large production cross-section over most of the parameter space. We highlight how one may detect these excited scalars. We also comment on the production and detection of excited neutral scalars. 
0704.03341	Studying Blazhko RR Lyrae stars with the 24-inch telescope of the  Konkoly Observatory	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Á. sódor	 Abstract: About a dozen field RR Lyrae stars have been observed with the 24-inch Heyde-Zeiss telescope of the Konkoly Observatory at Sv\'abhegy, Budapest, since its refurbishment in 2003. Most of the observing time is allocated for the investigation of the Blazhko modulation, a phenomenon that still does not have a satisfactory explanation. The obtained multicolour CCD observations are unique in extent. The accuracy of the measurements makes it possible to detect low amplitude modulation of the light curve as well. The discovery of Blazhko stars with low modulation amplitudes warns that the incidence rate of the Blazhko modulation is, in fact, much larger than it was previously expected. This makes the efforts exploring the cause of the modulation even more important. A summary of our measurements and results achieved during the last 3 years is presented. 
0704.03342	Multiplets of representations, twisted Dirac operators and Vogan's  conjecture in affine setting	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Victor G. Kac (MIT), Pierluigi Moseneder Frajria (Politecnico di Milano), Paolo Papi (Universita' di Roma La Sapienza)	 Abstract: We extend classical results of Kostant and al. on multiplets of representations of finite-dimensional Lie algebras and on the cubic Dirac operator to the setting of affine Lie algebras and twisted affine cubic Dirac operator. We prove in this setting an analogue of Vogan's conjecture on infinitesimal characters of Harish-Chandra modules in terms of Dirac cohomology. For our calculations we use the machinery of Lie conformal and vertex algebras. 
0704.03343	Kaluza-Klein Induced Supersymmetry Breaking for Braneworlds in Type IIB  Supergravity	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Jean-Luc Lehners, Paul Smyth, K.S. Stelle	 Abstract: We consider Z_2-symmetric braneworlds arising from 5-sphere compactifications with 5-form flux in type IIB supergravity. This Kaluza-Klein reduction produces a D=5 theory which supports 1/2-supersymmetric Z_2-symmetric domain-wall solutions. However, upon lifting such solutions back to D=10, one finds that supersymmetry is broken by 5-sphere Kaluza-Klein effects. This happens owing to the action on the Killing spinor of the Z_2 \subset SO(1,9) symmetry, which requires an orientation-reversing transformation in the 5-sphere directions together with the flip of the orbifold coordinate. We study the consequences of this supersymmetry breaking for the masses of fermion fluctuation modes about the brane background and find a natural two-scale hierarchy: some bulk modes have characteristic masses of order 1/L_5 but other modes more closely associated to the branes have an additional factor exp(-\rho/L_5), where L_5 is the AdS_5 length parameter and \rho is the orbifold size. 
0704.03344	Solving the QCD NLO evolution equations with a Markovian Monte Carlo	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:W. Placzek, K. Golec-Biernat, S. Jadach, M. Skrzypek	 Abstract: We discuss precision Monte Carlo (MC) calculations for solving the QCD evolution equations up to the next-to-leading-order (NLO) level. They employ forward Markovian Monte Carlo algorithms, which provide rigorous solutions of the above equations. These algorithms are implemented in the form of the Monte Carlo program EvolFMC. This program has been cross-checked with independent, non-MC, programs (QCDNum16 and APCheb33) and the numerical agreement at the level of 0.1% has been found. 
0704.03345	(Erratum) An f(R) gravitation for galactic environments	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. Saffari, Y. Sobouti	 Abstract: Without abstract. 
0704.03346	Higher-dimensional Temperley-Lieb algebras	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Marcos Alvarez, Paul P. Martin	 Abstract: A category which generalises to higher dimensions many of the features of the Temperley-Lieb category is introduced. 
0704.03347	Universal dynamical decoherence control of noisy single-and multi-qubit  systems	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Goren Gordon, Noam Erez, Gershon Kurizki	 Abstract: In this article we develop, step by step, the framework for universal dynamical control of two-level systems (TLS) or qubits experiencing amplitude- or phase-noise (AN or PN) due to coupling to a thermal bath. A comprehensive arsenal of modulation schemes is introduced and applied to either AN or PN, resulting in completely analogous formulae for the decoherence rates, thus underscoring the unified nature of this universal formalism. We then address the extension of this formalism to multipartite decoherence control, where symmetries are exploited to overcome decoherence. 
0704.03348	Extreme points of the set of density matrices with positive partial  transpose	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Jon Magne Leinaas, Jan Myrheim, Eirik Ovrum	 Abstract: We present a necessary and sufficient condition for a finite dimensional density matrix to be an extreme point of the convex set of density matrices with positive partial transpose with respect to a subsystem. We also give an algorithm for finding such extreme points and illustrate this by some examples. 
0704.03349	J-class weighted shifts on the space of bounded sequences of complex  numbers	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:George Costakis, Antonios Manoussos	 Abstract: We provide a characterization of $J$-class and $J^{mix}$-class unilateral weighted shifts on $l^{\infty}(\mathbb{N})$ in terms of their weight sequences. In contrast to the previously mentioned result we show that a bilateral weighted shift on $l^{\infty}(\mathbb{Z})$ cannot be a $J$-class operator. 
0704.03350	The Statistics of the Points Where Nodal Lines Intersect a Reference  Curve	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:Amit Aronovitch, Uzy Smilansky	 Abstract: We study the intersection points of a fixed planar curve $\Gamma$ with the nodal set of a translationally invariant and isotropic Gaussian random field $\Psi(\bi{r})$ and the zeros of its normal derivative across the curve. The intersection points form a discrete random process which is the object of this study. The field probability distribution function is completely specified by the correlation $G(|\bi{r}-\bi{r}'|) = <\Psi(\bi{r}) \Psi(\bi{r}')>$. Given an arbitrary $G(|\bi{r}-\bi{r}'|)$, we compute the two point correlation function of the point process on the line, and derive other statistical measures (repulsion, rigidity) which characterize the short and long range correlations of the intersection points. We use these statistical measures to quantitatively characterize the complex patterns displayed by various kinds of nodal networks. We apply these statistics in particular to nodal patterns of random waves and of eigenfunctions of chaotic billiards. Of special interest is the observation that for monochromatic random waves, the number variance of the intersections with long straight segments grows like $L \ln L$, as opposed to the linear growth predicted by the percolation model, which was successfully used to predict other long range nodal properties of that field. 
0704.03351	Symbolic sensors : one solution to the numerical-symbolic interface	Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)	Authors:Eric Benoit, Laurent Foulloy (LISTIC)	 Abstract: This paper introduces the concept of symbolic sensor as an extension of the smart sensor one. Then, the links between the physical world and the symbolic one are introduced. The creation of symbols is proposed within the frame of the pretopology theory. In order to adapt the sensor to the measurement context, a learning process has been used to provide an adaptive interpretation of the measurement. Finally, an example is presented in the case of a temperature measurement. 
0704.03352	Theory of weakly damped free-surface flows: a new formulation based on  potential flow solutions	Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics (physics.ao-ph)	Authors:F. Dias, A.I. Dyachenko, V.E. Zakharov	 Abstract: Several theories for weakly damped free-surface flows have been formulated. In this paper we use the linear approximation to the Navier-Stokes equations to derive a new set of equations for potential flow which include dissipation due to viscosity. A viscous correction is added not only to the irrotational pressure (Bernoulli's equation), but also to the kinematic boundary condition. The nonlinear Schr\"odinger (NLS) equation that one can derive from the new set of equations to describe the modulations of weakly nonlinear, weakly damped deep-water gravity waves turns out to be the classical damped version of the NLS equation that has been used by many authors without rigorous justification. 
0704.03353	Symbolic sensors	Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)	Authors:Eric Benoit, Laurent Foulloy (LISTIC)	 Abstract: This paper deals with sensors which compute and report linguistic assessments of their values.Such sensors, called symbolic sensors are a natural extension of smart ones when working with control systems which use artificial intelligence based technics. After having recalled the smart sensor concepts, this paper introduces the symbolic sensor ones. Links between the physical world and the symbolic one are described. It is then shown how Zadeh's approximate reasoning theory provides a smart way to implement symbolic sensors. Finally, since the symbolic sensor is a general component, a functional adaptation to the measurement context is proposed. 
0704.03354	J-class operators and hypercyclicity	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:George Costakis, Antonios Manoussos	 Abstract: The purpose of the present work is to treat a new notion related to linear dynamics, which can be viewed as a "localization" of the notion of hypercyclicity. In particular, let $T$ be a bounded linear operator acting on a Banach space $X$ and let $x$ be a non-zero vector in $X$ such that for every open neighborhood $U\subset X$ of $x$ and every non-empty open set $V\subset X$ there exists a positive integer $n$ such that $T^{n}U\cap V\neq\emptyset$. In this case $T$ will be called a $J$-class operator. We investigate the class of operators satisfying the above property and provide various examples. It is worthwhile to mention that many results from the theory of hypercyclic operators have their analogues in this setting. For example we establish results related to the Bourdon-Feldman theorem and we characterize the $J$-class weighted shifts. We would also like to stress that even non-separable Banach spaces which do not support topologically transitive operators, as for example $l^{\infty}(\mathbb{N})$, do admit $J$-class operators. 
0704.03355	Wreath products in modular group algebras of some finite 2-groups	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Alexander Konovalov	 Abstract: Let $K$ be field of characteristic 2 and let $G$ be a finite non-abelian 2-group with the cyclic derived subgroup $G'$, and there exists a central element $z$ of order 2 in $Z(G) \backslash G'$. We prove that the unit group of the group algebra $KG$ possesses a section isomorphic to the wreath product of a group of order 2 with the derived subgroup of the group $G$, giving for such groups a positive answer to the question of A. Shalev. 
0704.03356	Prévention des escarres chez les paraplégiques : une nouvelle  approche par électrostimulation linguale	Medical Physics (physics.med-ph)	Authors:Alexandre Moreau-Gaudry (TIMC - IMAG), Anne Prince (CMUDD), Jacques Demongeot (TIMC - IMAG), Yohan Payan (TIMC - IMAG)	 Abstract: Pressure ulcers are recognized as a major health issue in individuals with spinal cord injuries and new approaches to prevent this pathology are necessary. An innovative health strategy is being developed through the use of computer and sensory substitution via the tongue in order to compensate for the sensory loss in the buttock area for individuals with paraplegia. This sensory compensation will enable individuals with spinal cord injuries to be aware of a localized excess of pressure at the skin/seat interface and, consequently, will enable them to prevent the formation of pressure ulcers by relieving the cutaneous area of suffering. This work reports an initial evaluation of this approach and the feasibility of creating an adapted behavior, with a change in pressure as a response to electro-stimulated information on the tongue. Obtained during a clinical study in 10 healthy seated subjects, the first results are encouraging, with 92% success in 100 performed tests. These results, which have to be completed and validated in the paraplegic population, may lead to a new approach to education in health to prevent the formation of pressure ulcers within this population. Keywords: Spinal Cord Injuries, Pressure Ulcer, Sensory Substitution, Health Education, Biomedical Informatics. 
0704.03357	Statistical-mechanical description of quantum entanglement	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:J. K. Korbicz, F. Hulpke, A. Osterloh, M. Lewenstein	 Abstract: We present a description of finite dimensional quantum entanglement, based on a study of the space of all convex decompositions of a given density matrix. On this space we construct a system of real polynomial equations describing separable states. We further study this system using statistical mechanical methods. Finally, we apply our techniques to Werner states of two qubits and obtain a sufficient criterion for separability. 
0704.03358	A Class of pairwise-independent Joinings	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Elise Janvresse (LMRS), Thierry De La Rue (LMRS)	 Abstract: We introduce a special class of pairwise-independent self-joinings for a stationary process: Those for which one coordinate is a continuous function of the two others. We investigate which properties on the process the existence of such a joining entails. In particular, we prove that if the process is aperiodic, then it has positive entropy. Our other results suggest that such pairwise independent, non-independent self-joinings exist only in very specific situations: Essentially when the process is a subshift of finite type topologically conjugate to a full-shift. This provides an argument in favor of the conjecture that 2-fold mixing implies 3-fold-mixing. 
0704.03359	Direct Optimization of Ranking Measures	Information Retrieval (cs.IR)	Authors:Quoc Le, Alexander Smola	 Abstract: Web page ranking and collaborative filtering require the optimization of sophisticated performance measures. Current Support Vector approaches are unable to optimize them directly and focus on pairwise comparisons instead. We present a new approach which allows direct optimization of the relevant loss functions. This is achieved via structured estimation in Hilbert spaces. It is most related to Max-Margin-Markov networks optimization of multivariate performance measures. Key to our approach is that during training the ranking problem can be viewed as a linear assignment problem, which can be solved by the Hungarian Marriage algorithm. At test time, a sort operation is sufficient, as our algorithm assigns a relevance score to every (document, query) pair. Experiments show that the our algorithm is fast and that it works very well. 
0704.03360	A double main sequence turn-off in the rich star cluster NGC 1846 in the  Large Magellanic Cloud	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A.D. Mackey, P. Broby Nielsen (IfA, Edinburgh)	 Abstract: We report on HST/ACS photometry of the rich intermediate-age star cluster NGC 1846 in the Large Magellanic Cloud, which clearly reveals the presence of a double main sequence turn-off in this object. Despite this, the main sequence, sub-giant branch, and red giant branch are all narrow and well-defined, and the red clump is compact. We examine the spatial distribution of turn-off stars and demonstrate that all belong to NGC 1846 rather than to any field star population. In addition, the spatial distributions of the two sets of turn-off stars may exhibit different central concentrations and some asymmetries. By fitting isochrones, we show that the properties of the colour-magnitude diagram can be explained if there are two stellar populations of equivalent metal abundance in NGC 1846, differing in age by approximately 300 Myr. The absolute ages of the two populations are ~1.9 and ~2.2 Gyr, although there may be a systematic error of up to +/-0.4 Gyr in these values. The metal abundance inferred from isochrone fitting is [M/H] ~ -0.40, consistent with spectroscopic measurements of [Fe/H]. We propose that the observed properties of NGC 1846 can be explained if this object originated via the tidal capture of two star clusters formed separately in a star cluster group in a single giant molecular cloud. This scenario accounts naturally for the age difference and uniform metallicity of the two member populations, as well as the differences in their spatial distributions. 
0704.03361	Kinematic segregation of nearby disk stars from the Hipparcos database	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. E. de Souza, R. Teixeira	 Abstract: To better understand our Galaxy, we investigate the pertinency of describing the sys tem of nearby disk stars in terms of a two-components Schwarzschild velocity distributio n.Using the proper motion and parallax information of Hipparcos database, we determine t he parameters characterizing the local stellar velocity field of a sample of 22000 disk stars. The sample we use is essentially the same as the one described by the criteria ad opted to study the LSR and the stream motion of the nearby stellar population 
0704.03362	Eigenfunctions of the two-dimensional Moshinsky-Szczepaniak Oscillator	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Nagalakshmi A. Rao, B. A. Kagali	 Abstract: While the usual harmonic oscillator potential gives discrete energies in the non-relativistic case, it does not however give genuine bound states in the relativistic case if the potential is treated in the usual way. In the present article, we have obtained the eigenfunctions of the Dirac oscillator in two spatial dimensions, adapting the prescription of Moshinsky. 
0704.03363	Topology and Factorization of Polynomials	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Hani Shaker	 Abstract: For any polynomial $P \in \mathbb{C}[X_1,X_2,...,X_n]$, we describe a $\mathbb{C}$-vector space $F(P)$ of solutions of a linear system of equations coming from some algebraic partial differential equations such that the dimension of $F(P)$ is the number of irreducible factors of $P$. Moreover, the knowledge of $F(P)$ gives a complete factorization of the polynomial $P$ by taking gcd's. This generalizes previous results by Ruppert and Gao in the case $n=2$. 
0704.03364	Upper limit on spontaneous supercurrents in Sr$_2$RuO$_4$	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:J.R. Kirtley, C. Kallin, C.W. Hicks, E.-A. Kim, Y. Liu, K.A. Moler, Y. Maeno, K.D. Nelson	 Abstract: It is widely believed that the perovskite Sr$_2$RuO$_4$ is an unconventional superconductor with broken time reversal symmetry. It has been predicted that superconductors with broken time reversal symmetry should have spontaneously generated supercurrents at edges and domain walls. We have done careful imaging of the magnetic fields above Sr$_2$RuO$_4$ single crystals using scanning Hall bar and SQUID microscopies, and see no evidence for such spontaneously generated supercurrents. We use the results from our magnetic imaging to place upper limits on the spontaneously generated supercurrents at edges and domain walls as a function of domain size. For a single domain, this upper limit is below the predicted signal by two orders of magnitude. We speculate on the causes and implications of the lack of large spontaneous supercurrents in this very interesting superconducting system. 
0704.03365	Wang-Landau molecular dynamics technique to search for low-energy  conformational space of proteins	Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)	Authors:Takehiro Nagasima, Akira R. Kinjo, Takashi Mitsui, Ken Nishikawa	 Abstract: Multicanonical molecular dynamics (MD) is a powerful technique for sampling conformations on rugged potential surfaces such as protein. However, it is notoriously difficult to estimate the multicanonical temperature effectively. Wang and Landau developed a convenient method for estimating the density of states based on a multicanonical Monte Carlo method. In their method, the density of states is calculated autonomously during a simulation. In this paper we develop a set of techniques to effectively apply the Wang-Landau method to MD simulations. In the multicanonical MD, the estimation of the derivative of the density of states is critical. In order to estimate it accurately, we devise two original improvements. First, the correction for the density of states is made smooth by using the Gaussian distribution obtained by a short canonical simulation. Second, an approximation is applied to the derivative, which is based on the Gaussian distribution and the multiple weighted histogram technique. A test of this method was performed with small polypeptides, Met-enkephalin and Trp-cage, and it is demonstrated that Wang-Landau MD is consistent with replica exchange MD but can sample much larger conformational space. 
0704.03366	Dynamics of a strongly interacting Fermi gas: the radial quadrupole mode	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:A. Altmeyer (1), S. Riedl (1 and 2), M. J. Wright (1), C. Kohstall (1), J. Hecker Denschlag (1), R. Grimm (1 and 2) ((1) Inst. of Experimental Physics and Center for Quantum Physics, Univ. Innsbruck, Austria, (2) Inst. for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information, Acad. of Sciences, Austria)	 Abstract: We report on measurements of an elementary surface mode in an ultracold, strongly interacting Fermi gas of 6Li atoms. The radial quadrupole mode allows us to probe hydrodynamic behavior in the BEC-BCS crossover without being influenced by changes in the equation of state. We examine frequency and damping of this mode, along with its expansion dynamics. In the unitarity limit and on the BEC side of the resonance, the observed frequencies agree with standard hydrodynamic theory. However, on the BCS side of the crossover, a striking down shift of the oscillation frequency is observed in the hydrodynamic regime as a precursor to an abrupt transition to collisionless behavior; this indicates coupling of the oscillation to fermionic pairs. 
0704.03367	Random walks of Wilson loops in the screening regime	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:P. V. Buividovich, M. I. Polikarpov	 Abstract: Dynamics of Wilson loops in pure Yang-Mills theories is analyzed in terms of random walks of the holonomies of the gauge field on the gauge group manifold. It is shown that such random walks should necessarily be free. The distribution of steps of these random walks is related to the spectrum of string tensions of the theory and to certain cumulants of Yang-Mills curvature tensor. It turns out that when colour charges are completely screened, the holonomies of the gauge field can change only by the elements of the group center, which indicates that in the screening regime confinement persists due to thin center vortices. Thick center vortices are also considered and the emergence of such stepwise changes in the limits of infinitely thin vortices and infinitely large loops is demonstrated. 
0704.03368	Search for gravitational waves from binary inspirals in S3 and S4 LIGO  data	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:LIGO Scientific Collaboration: B. Abbott, et al	 Abstract: We report on a search for gravitational waves from the coalescence of compact binaries during the third and fourth LIGO science runs. The search focused on gravitational waves generated during the inspiral phase of the binary evolution. In our analysis, we considered three categories of compact binary systems, ordered by mass: (i) primordial black hole binaries with masses in the range 0.35 M(sun) < m1, m2 < 1.0 M(sun), (ii) binary neutron stars with masses in the range 1.0 M(sun) < m1, m2 < 3.0 M(sun), and (iii) binary black holes with masses in the range 3.0 M(sun)< m1, m2 < m_(max) with the additional constraint m1+ m2 < m_(max), where m_(max) was set to 40.0 M(sun) and 80.0 M(sun) in the third and fourth science runs, respectively. Although the detectors could probe to distances as far as tens of Mpc, no gravitational-wave signals were identified in the 1364 hours of data we analyzed. Assuming a binary population with a Gaussian distribution around 0.75-0.75 M(sun), 1.4-1.4 M(sun), and 5.0-5.0 M(sun), we derived 90%-confidence upper limit rates of 4.9 yr^(-1) L10^(-1) for primordial black hole binaries, 1.2 yr^(-1) L10^(-1) for binary neutron stars, and 0.5 yr^(-1) L10^(-1) for stellar mass binary black holes, where L10 is 10^(10) times the blue light luminosity of the Sun. 
0704.03369	Planetary Migration to Large Radii	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R.G. Martin, S.H.Lubow, J.E. Pringle, M C. Wyatt	 Abstract: There is evidence for the existence of massive planets at orbital radii of several hundred AU from their parent stars where the timescale for planet formation by core accretion is longer than the disc lifetime. These planets could have formed close to their star and then migrated outwards. We consider how the transfer of angular momentum by viscous disc interactions from a massive inner planet could cause significant outward migration of a smaller outer planet. We find that it is in principle possible for planets to migrate to large radii. We note, however, a number of effects which may render the process somewhat problematic. 
0704.03370	Natural boundary of Dirichlet series	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Gautami Bhowmik, Jan-Christoph Schlage-Puchta	 Abstract: We prove some conditions on the existence of natural boundaries of Dirichlet series. We show that generically the presumed boundary is the natural one. We also give an application of natural boundaries in determining asymptotic results. 
0704.03371	Some remarks on generalized roundness	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:Ghislain Jaudon	 Abstract: By using the links between generalized roundness, negative type inequalities and equivariant Hilbert space compressions, we obtain that the generalized roundness of the usual Cayley graph of finitely generated free groups and free abelian groups of rank $\geq 2$ equals 1. This answers a question of J-F. Lafont and S. Prassidis. 
0704.03372	Shearfree perfect fluids with solenoidal magnetic curvature and a  gamma-law equation of state	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Norbert Van den Bergh, John Carminati, Hamid Reza Karimian	 Abstract: We show that shearfree perfect fluids obeying an equation of state p=(gamma -1) mu are non-rotating or non-expanding under the assumption that the spatial divergence of the magnetic part of the Weyl tensor is zero. 
0704.03373	Extension of symmetries on Einstein manifolds with boundary	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Michael T. Anderson	 Abstract: We investigate the validity of the isometry extension property for (Riemannian) Einstein metrics on manifolds with boundary. Given a metric on the boundary, this is the issue of whether any Killing field of the boundary metric extends to a Killing field of any bulk or filling Einstein metric inducing the given data on the boundary. Under a mild condition on the fundamental group, this is proved to be the case at least when the Killing field preserves the mean curvature of the boundary. 
0704.03374	Geometry and Topology in Relativistic Cosmology	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jean-Pierre Luminet	 Abstract: General relativity does not allow one to specify the topology of space, leaving the possibility that space is multiply rather than simply connected. We review the main mathematical properties of multiply connected spaces, and the different tools to classify them and to analyse their properties. Following their mathematical classification, we describe the different possible muticonnected spaces which may be used to construct Friedmann-Lemaitre universe models. Observational tests concern the distribution of images of discrete cosmic objects or more global effects, mainly those concerning the Cosmic Microwave Background. According to the 2003-2006 WMAP data releases, various deviations from the flat infinite universe model predictions hint at a possible non-trivial topology for the shape of space. In particular, a finite universe with the topology of the Poincar\'e dodecahedral spherical space fits remarkably well the data and is a good candidate for explaining both the local curvature of space and the large angle anomalies in the temperature power spectrum. Such a model of a small universe, whose volume would represent only about 80% the volume of the observable universe, offers an observational signature in the form of a predictable topological lens effect on one hand, and rises new issues on the physics of the early universe on the other hand. 
0704.03375	Polarization effects for the reaction $e^++e^-\to \bar p+p $ in presence  of two--photon exchange - Lecture Notes	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:C. Adamuscin, G. I. Gakh, E. Tomasi-Gustafsson	 Abstract: The aim of this work is to give a pedagogical derivation of polarization observables for the annihilation reaction $e^+ + e^- \to N+ \bar N$. The reaction mechanism is one photon + two photon exchange, the last is described by axial parametrization. After deriving the general expressions for the cross section of a binary process, the matrix element is written in terms of three complex amplitudes. The method to derive polarization observables is detailed and all expressions are given in terms of generalized form factors. The strategy for determining physical form factors in annihilation reactions in presence of two photon exchange is suggested, on the basis of model independent properties of the relevant observables. 
0704.03376	Flow of autonomous traffic on a single multi-lane street	Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)	Authors:Federico Polito, Fergal Dalton	 Abstract: We investigate the behaviour of an original traffic model. The model considers a single multi-lane street, populated by autonomous vehicles directed from either end to the other. Lanes have no intrinsic directionality, and the vehicles are inserted at random at either end and any lane. Collision avoidance is fully automatic and, to enhance the transport capacity of the street, vehicles form_trains_ in which they may travel at high speed quite close to the vehicle in front. We report on the transit times for vehicles under a wide variety of conditions: vehicle insertion probability & imbalance and their maximum speed distribution. We also outline an interesting feature of the model, that the complex interactions of many vehicles are considerably more powerful than a simple "keep left" directive which each vehicle should obey. 
0704.03377	Halo-model signatures from 380,000 SDSS Luminous Red Galaxies with  photometric redshifts	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Chris Blake, Adrian Collister, Ofer Lahav	 Abstract: We analyze the small-scale clustering in "MegaZ-LRG", a large photometric-redshift catalogue of Luminous Red Galaxies extracted from the imaging dataset of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey. MegaZ-LRG, presented in a companion paper, spans the redshift range 0.4 < z < 0.7 with an r.m.s. redshift error dz ~ 0.03(1+z), covering 5,914 deg^2 to map out a total cosmic volume 2.5 h^-3 Gpc^3. In this study we use 380,000 photometric redshifts to measure significant deviations from the canonical power-law fit to the angular correlation function in a series of narrow redshift slices, in which we construct volume-limited samples. These deviations are direct signatures of the manner in which these galaxies populate the underlying network of dark matter haloes. We cleanly delineate the separate contributions of the "1-halo" and "2-halo" clustering terms and fit our measurements by parameterizing the halo occupation distribution N(M) of the galaxies. Our results are successfully fit by a "central" galaxy contribution with a "soft" transition from zero to one galaxies, combined with a power-law "satellite" galaxy component, the slope of which is a strong function of galaxy luminosity. The large majority of galaxies are classified as central objects of their host dark matter haloes rather than satellites in more massive systems. The effective halo mass of MegaZ-LRG galaxies lies in the range log_10 (M_eff / h^-1 M_sol) = 13.61 - 13.8 (increasing with redshift, assuming large-scale normalization sigma_8 = 0.8) for corresponding number densities in the range n_g = 5.03 - 0.56 x 10^-4 h^3 Mpc^-3. Our results confirm the usefulness of the halo model for gaining physical insight into the patterns of galaxy clustering. 
0704.03378	Studies of the temperature and frequency dependent impedance of an  electroceramic functional oxide thermistor	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Rainer Schmidt, Andrew W. Brinkman	 Abstract: The charge transport mechanism and the macroscopic dielectric constant in polycrystalline device materials commonly exhibit several components such as electrode-sample interface, grain boundary and bulk contributions. In order to gain precise understanding of the functionality of polycrystalline electroceramic device materials it is essential to deconvolute these contributions. The paradigm of functional thermistor ceramics based on thick film spinel manganates has been studied by temperature dependent alternating current impedance spectroscopy. Three typical relaxation phenomena were detected, which all showed a separated temperature dependence of resistivity consistent with thermally activated charge transport. The dominating grain boundary and the interface contributions exhibited distinctively different capacitance allowing clear identification. The composite nature of the dielectric properties in polycrystalline functional ceramics was emphasized, and impedance spectroscopy was shown to be a powerful tool to account for and model such behaviour. 
0704.03379	$A^\nabla$-tensors on lightlike hypersurfaces	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Cyriaque Atindogbe (IECN), Lionel Bérard Bergery (IECN)	 Abstract: This paper introduces $\anabla$-tensors on lightlike hypersurfaces $M^{n+1}$ of signature $(0,n)$, $(n\geq 1)$ and investigates on their properties in connection with the null geometry of $M$. In particular, we show that there is an interplay between existence of $\anabla$-tensors of certain type and lightlike warped product structures. 
0704.03380	VIMOS spectroscopy of extended emission line regions	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K.J. Inskip, M. Villar-Martin, C. Tadhunter, R. Morganti, J. Holt, D. Dicken	 Abstract: We present the results of spectroscopic and imaging observations of the FRII radio galaxies PKS2250-41 and PKS1932-46. Both sources display very extensive emission line regions, and appear to be undergoing interactions with companion bodies. In addition to disturbed gas kinematics associated with interactions with the radio source, the more distant emitting material displays simple, narrow emission line profiles, often at significant velocity offsets from the system rest-frame, and may be associated with tidal debris. 
0704.03381	Determinant Formulas Relating to Tableaux of Bounded Height	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Guoce Xin	 Abstract: Chen et al. recently established bijections for $(d+1)$-noncrossing/ nonnesting matchings, oscillating tableaux of bounded height $d$, and oscillating lattice walks in the $d$-dimensional Weyl chamber. Stanley asked what is the total number of such tableaux of length $n$ and of any shape. We find a determinant formula for the exponential generating function. The same idea applies to prove Gessel's remarkable determinant formula for permutations with bounded length of increasing subsequences. We also give short algebraic derivations for some results of the reflection principle. 
0704.03382	A note on conformal connections on lightlike hypersurfaces	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Cyriaque Atindogbe (IECN), Lionel Bérard Bergery (IECN)	 Abstract: Degenerate submanifolds of pseudo-Riemannian manifolds are quite difficult to study because there is no prefered connection when the submanifold is not totally geodesic. For the particular case of degenerate totally umbilical hypersurfaces, we show that there are "Weyl" connections adapted to the induced structure on the hypersurface. We begin the study of these with their holonomy. 
0704.03383	Einstein-Weyl structures on lightike hypersurfaces	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Cyriaque Atindogbe (IECN), Lionel Bérard Bergery (IECN)	 Abstract: We study Weyl structures on lightlikes hypersurfaces endowed with a conformal structure of certain type and specific screen distribution: the Weyl screen structures. We investigate various differential geometric properties of Einstein-Weyl screen structures on lightlike hypersurfaces and show that, for ambiant Lorentzian space $\mathbb{R}^{n+2}_{1}$ and a totally umbilical screen foliation, there is a strong interplay with the induced (Riemannian) Weyl-structure on the leaves. Finally, we establish necessary and sufficient conditions for a Weyl structure defined by the $1-$form of an almost contact structure given by an additional complex structure in case of an ambiant Kaehler manifold to be closed. 
0704.03384	Decay channels and charmonium mass-shifts	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:M.R. Pennington, D.J. Wilson	 Abstract: The discovery in the last few years of the $X, Y$ and $Z$ states of the extended charmonium family has highlighted the importance of the closeness of decay channels to an understanding of these mesons. We aid this debate by illustrating a simple calculational procedure for including the effect of open and nearby closed channels. 
0704.03385	Constrained simulations of the local universe: I. Mass and motion in the  Local Volume	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Luis A. Martinez-Vaquero (UAM), Gustavo Yepes (UAM), Yehuda Hoffman (Hebrew University)	 Abstract: It has been recently claimed that there is no correlation between the distribution of galaxies and their peculiar velocities within the Local Volume (LV), namely a sphere of R=7/h Mpc around the Local Group (LG). It has been then stated that this implies that either locally dark matter is not distributed in the same way as luminous matter, or peculiar velocities are not due to fluctuations in mass. To test that statement a set of constrained N-body cosmological simulations, designed to reproduce the main observed large scale structure, have been analyzed. The simulations were performed within the flat-Lambda, open and flat matter only CDM cosmogonies. Two unconstrained simulations of the flat-Lambda and open CDM models were performed for comparison. LG-like objects have been selected so as to mimic the real LG environment. The local gravitational field due to all halos found within each LV is compared with the exact gravitational field induced by all matter in the simulation. We conclude that there is no correlation between the exact and the local gravitational field obtained by pairwise newtonian forces between halos. Moreover, the local gravitational field is uncorrelated with the peculiar velocities of halos. The exact gravitational field has a linear correlation with peculiar velocities but the proportionality constant relating the velocity with gravitational field falls below the prediction of the linear theory. Upon considering all matter inside the LVs, the exact and local gravitational accelerations show a much better correlation, but with a considerable scatter independent on the cosmological models. The main conclusion is that the lack of correlation between the local gravitation and the peculiar velocity fields around LG-like objects is naturally expected in the CDM cosmologies. 
0704.03386	Four-dimensional Painlevé systems of types $D_5^{(1)}$ and $B_4^{(1)}$	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yusuke Sasano	 Abstract: We find and study a five-parameter family of four-dimensional coupled Painlev\'e V systems with affine Weyl group symmetry of type $D_5^{(1)}$. We then give an explicit description of a confluence from those systems to a four-parameter family of four-dimensional coupled Painlev\'e III systems with affine Weyl group symmetry of type $B_4^{(1)}$. 
0704.03387	Noncommutative Berezin transforms and model theory	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Gelu Popescu	 Abstract: We initiate the study of a class of noncommutative domains of n-tuples of bounded linear operators on a Hilbert space, which is generated by certain positivity conditions on polynomials in n noncommutative indeterminates. We obtain Fatou type results, functional calculi, and a model theory for n-tuples of operators in these domains. The main role in this study is played by a class of noncommutative Berezin transforms which is introduced in this paper. Our results extend to noncommutative varieties. 
0704.03388	L^2-Betti numbers of plane algebraic curves	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Stefan Friedl, Constance Leidy, Laurentiu Maxim	 Abstract: In [DJL07] it was shown that if A is an affine hyperplane arrangement in C^n, then at most one of the L^2-Betti numbers of its complement is non--zero. We will prove an analogous statement for complements of any algebraic curve in C^2. Furthermore we also recast and extend results of [LM06] in terms of L^2-Betti numbers. 
0704.03389	Effect of selection on ancestry: an exactly soluble case and its  phenomenological generalization	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:E. Brunet, B. Derrida, A. H. Mueller, S. Munier	 Abstract: We consider a family of models describing the evolution under selection of a population whose dynamics can be related to the propagation of noisy traveling waves. For one particular model, that we shall call the exponential model, the properties of the traveling wave front can be calculated exactly, as well as the statistics of the genealogy of the population. One striking result is that, for this particular model, the genealogical trees have the same statistics as the trees of replicas in the Parisi mean-field theory of spin glasses. We also find that in the exponential model, the coalescence times along these trees grow like the logarithm of the population size. A phenomenological picture of the propagation of wave fronts that we introduced in a previous work, as well as our numerical data, suggest that these statistics remain valid for a larger class of models, while the coalescence times grow like the cube of the logarithm of the population size. 
0704.03390	Realizations of Seifert matrices by hyperbolic knots	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Stefan Friedl	 Abstract: Recently Kearton showed that any Seifert matrix of a knot is S--equivalent to the Seifert matrix of a prime knot. We show in this note that such a matrix is in fact S--equivalent to the Seifert matrix of a hyperbolic knot. This result follows from reinterpreting this problem in terms of Blanchfield pairings and by applying results of Kawauchi. 
0704.03391	Lifetime Improvement in Wireless Sensor Networks via Collaborative  Beamforming and Cooperative Transmission	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Zhu Han, H. Vincent Poor	 Abstract: Collaborative beamforming (CB) and cooperative transmission (CT) have recently emerged as communication techniques that can make effective use of collaborative/cooperative nodes to create a virtual multiple-input/multiple-output (MIMO) system. Extending the lifetime of networks composed of battery-operated nodes is a key issue in the design and operation of wireless sensor networks. This paper considers the effects on network lifetime of allowing closely located nodes to use CB/CT to reduce the load or even to avoid packet-forwarding requests to nodes that have critical battery life. First, the effectiveness of CB/CT in improving the signal strength at a faraway destination using energy in nearby nodes is studied. Then, the performance improvement obtained by this technique is analyzed for a special 2D disk case. Further, for general networks in which information-generation rates are fixed, a new routing problem is formulated as a linear programming problem, while for other general networks, the cost for routing is dynamically adjusted according to the amount of energy remaining and the effectiveness of CB/CT. From the analysis and the simulation results, it is seen that the proposed method can reduce the payloads of energy-depleting nodes by about 90% in the special case network considered and improve the lifetimes of general networks by about 10%, compared with existing techniques. 
0704.03392	World Graph Formalism for Feynman Amplitudes	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Helmut Hölzler	 Abstract: A unified treatment of Schwinger parametrised Feynman amplitudes is suggested which addresses vertices of arbitrary order on the same footing as propagators. Contributions from distinct diagrams are organised collectively. The scheme is based on the continuous graph Laplacian. The analogy to a classical statistical diffusion system of vector charges on the graph is explored. 
0704.03393	Exponential decay of correlation for the Stochastic Process associated  to the Entropy Penalized Method	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Diogo A. Gomes, Artur O. Lopes	 Abstract: In this paper we present an upper bound for the decay of correlation for the stationary stochastic process associated with the Entropy Penalized Method. Let $L(x, v):\Tt^n\times\Rr^n\to \Rr$ be a Lagrangian of the form L(x,v) = {1/2}|v|^2 - U(x) + < P, v>. For each value of $\epsilon $ and $h$, consider the operator \Gg[\phi](x):= -\epsilon h {ln}[\int_{\re^N} e ^{-\frac{hL(x,v)+\phi(x+hv)}{\epsilon h}}dv], as well as the reversed operator \bar \Gg[\phi](x):= -\epsilon h {ln}[\int_{\re^N} e^{-\frac{hL(x+hv,-v)+\phi(x+hv)}{\epsilon h}}dv], both acting on continuous functions $\phi:\Tt^n\to \Rr$. Denote by $\phi_{\epsilon,h} $ the solution of $\Gg[\phi_{\epsilon,h}]=\phi_{\epsilon,h}+\lambda_{\epsilon,h}$, and by $\bar \phi_{\epsilon,h} $ the solution of $\bar \Gg[\phi_{\epsilon,h}]=\bar \phi_{\epsilon,h}+\lambda_{\epsilon,h}$. In order to analyze the decay of correlation for this process we show that the operator $ {\cal L} (\phi) (x) = \int e^{- \frac{h L (x,v)}{\epsilon}} \phi(x+h v) d v,$ has a maximal eigenvalue isolated from the rest of the spectrum. 
0704.03394	Modelling the energy dependencies of high-frequency QPO in black hole  X-ray binaries	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. T. Zycki, A. Niedzwiecki, M. A. Sobolewska	 Abstract: We model energy dependencies of the quasi periodic oscillations (QPO) in the model of disc epicyclic motions, with X-ray modulation caused by varying relativistic effects. The model was proposed to explain the high frequency QPO observed in X-ray binaries. We consider two specific scenarios for the geometry of accretion flow and spectral formation. Firstly, a standard cold accretion disc with an active X-ray emitting corona is assumed to oscillate. Secondly, only a hot X-ray emitting accretion flow oscillates, while the cold disc is absent at the QPO radius. We find that the QPO spectra are generally similar to the spectrum of radiation emitted at the QPO radius, and they are broadened by the relativistic effects. In particular, the QPO spectrum contains the disc component in the oscillating disc with a corona scenario. We also review the available data on energy dependencies of high frequency QPO, and we point out that they appear to lack the disc component in their energy spectra. This would suggest the hot flow geometry in the spectral states when high frequency QPO are observed. 
0704.03395	General-Purpose Computing on a Semantic Network Substrate	Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)	Authors:Marko A. Rodriguez	 Abstract: This article presents a model of general-purpose computing on a semantic network substrate. The concepts presented are applicable to any semantic network representation. However, due to the standards and technological infrastructure devoted to the Semantic Web effort, this article is presented from this point of view. In the proposed model of computing, the application programming interface, the run-time program, and the state of the computing virtual machine are all represented in the Resource Description Framework (RDF). The implementation of the concepts presented provides a practical computing paradigm that leverages the highly-distributed and standardized representational-layer of the Semantic Web. 
0704.03396	Lifetime Improvement of Wireless Sensor Networks by Collaborative  Beamforming and Cooperative Transmission	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Zhu Han, H. Vincent Poor	 Abstract: Extending network lifetime of battery-operated devices is a key design issue that allows uninterrupted information exchange among distributive nodes in wireless sensor networks. Collaborative beamforming (CB) and cooperative transmission (CT) have recently emerged as new communication techniques that enable and leverage effective resource sharing among collaborative/cooperative nodes. In this paper, we seek to maximize the lifetime of sensor networks by using the new idea that closely located nodes can use CB/CT to reduce the load or even avoid packet forwarding requests to nodes that have critical battery life. First, we study the effectiveness of CB/CT to improve the signal strength at a faraway destination using energy in nearby nodes. Then, a 2D disk case is analyzed to assess the resulting performance improvement. For general networks, if information-generation rates are fixed, the new routing problem is formulated as a linear programming problem; otherwise, the cost for routing is dynamically adjusted according to the amount of energy remaining and the effectiveness of CB/CT. From the analysis and simulation results, it is seen that the proposed schemes can improve the lifetime by about 90% in the 2D disk network and by about 10% in the general networks, compared to existing schemes. 
0704.03397	Quantized spin excitations in a ferromagnetic microstrip from microwave  photovoltage measurements	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Y. S. Gui, N. Mecking, C. -M. Hu	 Abstract: Quantized spin excitations in a single ferromagnetic microstrip have been measured using the microwave photovoltage technique. Several kinds of spin wave modes due to different contributions of the dipole-dipole and the exchange interactions are observed. Among them are a series of distinct dipole-exchange spin wave modes, which allow us to determine precisely the subtle spin boundary condition. A comprehensive picture for quantized spin excitations in a ferromagnet with finite size is thereby established. The dispersions of the quantized spin wave modes have two different branches separated by the saturation magnetization. 
0704.03398	Almost Product Evaluation of Hankel Determinants	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Omer Egecioglu, Timothy Redmond, Charles Ryavec	 Abstract: An extensive literature exists describing various techniques for the evaluation of Hankel determinants. The prevailing methods such as Dodgson condensation, continued fraction expansion, LU decomposition, all produce product formulas when they are applicable. We mention the classic case of the Hankel determinants with binomial entries ${3k+2 \choose k}$ and those with entries ${3k \choose k}$; both of these classes of Hankel determinants have product form evaluations. The intermediate case, ${3k+1 \choose k}$ has not been evaluated. There is a good reason for this: these latter determinants do not have product form evaluations. In this paper we evaluate the Hankel determinant of ${3k+1 \choose k}$. The evaluation is a sum of a small number of products, an almost product. The method actually provides more, and as applications, we present the salient points for the evaluation of a number of other Hankel determinants with polynomial entries, along with product and almost product form evaluations at special points. 
0704.03399	Cooperative Transmission Protocols with High Spectral Efficiency and  High Diversity Order Using Multiuser Detection and Network Coding	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Zhu Han, Xin Zhang, H. Vincent Poor	 Abstract: Cooperative transmission is an emerging communication technique that takes advantages of the broadcast nature of wireless channels. However, due to low spectral efficiency and the requirement of orthogonal channels, its potential for use in future wireless networks is limited. In this paper, by making use of multiuser detection (MUD) and network coding, cooperative transmission protocols with high spectral efficiency, diversity order, and coding gain are developed. Compared with the traditional cooperative transmission protocols with single-user detection, in which the diversity gain is only for one source user, the proposed MUD cooperative transmission protocols have the merits that the improvement of one user's link can also benefit the other users. In addition, using MUD at the relay provides an environment in which network coding can be employed. The coding gain and high diversity order can be obtained by fully utilizing the link between the relay and the destination. From the analysis and simulation results, it is seen that the proposed protocols achieve higher diversity gain, better asymptotic efficiency, and lower bit error rate, compared to traditional MUD and to existing cooperative transmission protocols. 
0704.03400	Large deviation generating function for energy transport in the  Pauli-Fierz model	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Wojciech De Roeck	 Abstract: We consider a finite quantum system coupled to quasifree thermal reservoirs at different temperatures. Under the assumptions of small coupling and exponential decay of the reservoir correlation function, the large deviation generating function of energy transport into the reservoirs is shown to be analytic on a bounded set. Our method is different from the spectral deformation technique which was employed recently in the study of spin-boson-like models. As a corollary, we derive the Gallavotti-Cohen fluctuation relation for the entropy production and a central limit theorem for energy transport. 
0704.03401	Harmonic Generation from Laser-Irradiated Clusters	Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)	Authors:M. Kundu, S.V. Popruzhenko, D. Bauer	 Abstract: The harmonic emission from cluster nanoplasmas subject to short, intense infrared laser pulses is analyzed by means of particle-in-cell simulations. A pronounced resonant enhancement of the low-order harmonic yields is found when the Mie plasma frequency of the ionizing and expanding cluster resonates with the respective harmonic frequency. We show that a strong, nonlinear resonant coupling of the cluster electrons with the laser field inhibits coherent electron motion, suppressing the emitted radiation and restricting the spectrum to only low-order harmonics. A pump-probe scheme is suggested to monitor the ionization dynamics of the expanding clusters. 
0704.03402	Diversity-Multiplexing Tradeoff in Selective-Fading MIMO Channels	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Pedro Coronel, Helmut Bölcskei	 Abstract: We establish the optimal diversity-multiplexing (DM) tradeoff of coherent time, frequency and time-frequency selective-fading MIMO channels and provide a code design criterion for DM-tradeoff optimality. Our results are based on the analysis of the "Jensen channel" associated to a given selective-fading MIMO channel. While the original problem seems analytically intractable due to the mutual information being a sum of correlated random variables, the Jensen channel is equivalent to the original channel in the sense of the DM-tradeoff and lends itself nicely to analytical treatment. Finally, as a consequence of our results, we find that the classical rank criterion for space-time code design (in selective-fading MIMO channels) ensures optimality in the sense of the DM-tradeoff. 
0704.03403	Sparticle Spectra and LHC Signatures for Large Volume String  Compactifications	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:J. P. Conlon, C. H. Kom, K. Suruliz, B. C. Allanach, F. Quevedo	 Abstract: We study the supersymmetric particle spectra and LHC collider observables for the large-volume string models with a fundamental scale of 10^{11} GeV that arise in moduli-fixed string compactifications with branes and fluxes. The presence of magnetic fluxes on the brane world volume, required for chirality, perturb the soft terms away from those previously computed in the dilute-flux limit. We use the difference in high-scale gauge couplings to estimate the magnitude of this perturbation and study the potential effects of the magnetic fluxes by generating many random spectra with the soft terms perturbed around the dilute flux limit. Even with a 40% variation in the high-scale soft terms the low-energy spectra take a clear and predictive form. The resulting spectra are broadly similar to those arising on the SPS1a slope, but more degenerate. In their minimal version the models predict the ratios of gaugino masses to be M_1 : M_2 : M_3=(1.5 - 2) : 2 : 6, different to both mSUGRA and mirage mediation. Among the scalars, the squarks tend to be lighter and the sleptons heavier than for comparable mSUGRA models. We generate 10 fb^{-1} of sample LHC data for the random spectra in order to study the range of collider phenomenology that can occur. We perform a detailed mass reconstruction on one example large-volume string model spectrum. 100 fb^{-1} of integrated luminosity is sufficient to discriminate the model from mSUGRA and aspects of the sparticle spectrum can be accurately reconstructed. 
0704.03404	Smoothed Wigner transforms in the numerical simulation of semiclassical  (high-frequency) wave propagation	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Agissilaos G. Athanassoulis	 Abstract: The numerical simulation of wave propagation in semiclassical (high-frequency) problems is well known to pose a formidable challenge. In this work, a new phase-space approach for the numerical simulation of semiclassical wave propagation, making use of the smoothed Wigner Transform (SWT), is proposed. There are numerous works which use the Wigner Transform (WT) in the study of a variety of wave propagation problems including high-frequency limits for linear, nonlinear and/or random waves. The WT however is well known to present significant difficulties in the formulation of numerical schemes. Working with concrete examples for the semiclassical linear Schrodinger equation it is seen that the SWT approach is indeed significantly faster (in a well-defined sense) to work with than the WT and than full numerical solutions of the original equation in the semiclassical regime. Comparisons with exact and numerical solutions are used to keep track of numerical errors. 
0704.03405	Estimation Diversity and Energy Efficiency in Distributed Sensing	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Shuguang Cui, Jinjun Xiao, Andrea Goldsmith, Zhi-Quan Luo, H. Vincent Poor	 Abstract: Distributed estimation based on measurements from multiple wireless sensors is investigated. It is assumed that a group of sensors observe the same quantity in independent additive observation noises with possibly different variances. The observations are transmitted using amplify-and-forward (analog) transmissions over non-ideal fading wireless channels from the sensors to a fusion center, where they are combined to generate an estimate of the observed quantity. Assuming that the Best Linear Unbiased Estimator (BLUE) is used by the fusion center, the equal-power transmission strategy is first discussed, where the system performance is analyzed by introducing the concept of estimation outage and estimation diversity, and it is shown that there is an achievable diversity gain on the order of the number of sensors. The optimal power allocation strategies are then considered for two cases: minimum distortion under power constraints; and minimum power under distortion constraints. In the first case, it is shown that by turning off bad sensors, i.e., sensors with bad channels and bad observation quality, adaptive power gain can be achieved without sacrificing diversity gain. Here, the adaptive power gain is similar to the array gain achieved in Multiple-Input Single-Output (MISO) multi-antenna systems when channel conditions are known to the transmitter. In the second case, the sum power is minimized under zero-outage estimation distortion constraint, and some related energy efficiency issues in sensor networks are discussed. 
0704.03406	Propagation of external regulation and asynchronous dynamics in random  Boolean networks	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Hamed Mahmoudi, Andrea Pagnani, Martin Weigt, Riccardo Zecchina	 Abstract: Boolean Networks and their dynamics are of great interest as abstract modeling schemes in various disciplines, ranging from biology to computer science. Whereas parallel update schemes have been studied extensively in past years, the level of understanding of asynchronous updates schemes is still very poor. In this paper we study the propagation of external information given by regulatory input variables into a random Boolean network. We compute both analytically and numerically the time evolution and the asymptotic behavior of this propagation of external regulation (PER). In particular, this allows us to identify variables which are completely determined by this external information. All those variables in the network which are not directly fixed by PER form a core which contains in particular all non-trivial feedback loops. We design a message-passing approach allowing to characterize the statistical properties of these cores in dependence of the Boolean network and the external condition. At the end we establish a link between PER dynamics and the full random asynchronous dynamics of a Boolean network. 
0704.03407	On the generalized Freedman-Townsend model	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:C. Bizdadea, E. M. Cioroianu, I. Negru, S. O. Saliu, S. C. Sararu	 Abstract: Consistent interactions that can be added to a free, Abelian gauge theory comprising a finite collection of BF models and a finite set of two-form gauge fields (with the Lagrangian action written in first-order form as a sum of Abelian Freedman-Townsend models) are constructed from the deformation of the solution to the master equation based on specific cohomological techniques. Under the hypotheses of smoothness in the coupling constant, locality, Lorentz covariance, and Poincare invariance of the interactions, supplemented with the requirement on the preservation of the number of derivatives on each field with respect to the free theory, we obtain that the deformation procedure modifies the Lagrangian action, the gauge transformations as well as the accompanying algebra. The interacting Lagrangian action contains a generalized version of non-Abelian Freedman-Townsend model. The consistency of interactions to all orders in the coupling constant unfolds certain equations, which are shown to have solutions. 
0704.03408	The Trade-off between Processing Gains of an Impulse Radio UWB System in  the Presence of Timing Jitter	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Sinan Gezici, Andreas F. Molisch, H. Vincent Poor, Hisashi Kobayashi	 Abstract: In time hopping impulse radio, $N_f$ pulses of duration $T_c$ are transmitted for each information symbol. This gives rise to two types of processing gain: (i) pulse combining gain, which is a factor $N_f$, and (ii) pulse spreading gain, which is $N_c=T_f/T_c$, where $T_f$ is the mean interval between two subsequent pulses. This paper investigates the trade-off between these two types of processing gain in the presence of timing jitter. First, an additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN) channel is considered and approximate closed form expressions for bit error probability are derived for impulse radio systems with and without pulse-based polarity randomization. Both symbol-synchronous and chip-synchronous scenarios are considered. The effects of multiple-access interference and timing jitter on the selection of optimal system parameters are explained through theoretical analysis. Finally, a multipath scenario is considered and the trade-off between processing gains of a synchronous impulse radio system with pulse-based polarity randomization is analyzed. The effects of the timing jitter, multiple-access interference and inter-frame interference are investigated. Simulation studies support the theoretical results. 
0704.03409	Azimuthal decorrelation of Mueller-Navelet jets at the Tevatron and the  LHC	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:C. Marquet, C. Royon	 Abstract: We study the production of Mueller-Navelet jets at hadron colliders in the Balitsky-Fadin-Kuraev-Lipatov (BFKL) framework. We show that a measurement of the relative azimuthal angle \Delta\Phi between the jets can provide a good testing ground for corrections due to next-leading logarithms (NLL). Besides the well-known azimuthal decorrelation with increasing rapidity interval \Delta\eta between the jets, we propose to also measure this effect as a function of R=k_2/k_1, the ratio between the jets transverse momenta. Using renormalisation-group improved NLL kernel, we obtain predictions for d\sigma/d\Delta\eta dR d\Delta\Phi. We analyse NLL-scheme and renormalisation-scale uncertainties, and energy-momentum conservation effects, in order to motivate a measurement at the Tevatron and the LHC. 
0704.03410	On the $p$-adic meromorphy of the function field height zeta function	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:C. Douglas Haessig	 Abstract: In this brief note, we will investigate the number of points of bounded (twisted) height in a projective variety defined over a function field, where the function field comes from a projective variety of dimension greater than or equal to 2. A first step in this investigation is to understand the $p$-adic analytic properties of the height zeta function. In particular, we will show that for a large class of projective varieties this function is $p$-adic meromorphic. 
0704.03411	Twisted conjugacy classes in R. Thompson's group F	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:Collin Bleak, Alexander Fel'shtyn, Daciberg L. Gonçalves	 Abstract: In this short article, we prove that any automorphism of the R. Thompson's group $F$ has infinitely many twisted conjugacy classes. The result follows from the work of Matthew Brin, together with a standard facts on R. Thompson's group $F$, and elementary properties of the Reidemeister numbers. 
0704.03412	The effect of dipole-dipole interactions between atoms in an active  medium	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:V.V.Berezovsky, L.I.Men'shikov, S.Oberg, C.D.Latham	 Abstract: Based on the results of numerical modeling, it is shown that dipole-dipole interactions among atoms in the active medium influences strongly the character of the associated superradiation. The main effect is to make the nuclear subsystem behave chaotically. Its strength increases with the atom density, and leads to the suppression of distant collective correlations and superradiation. Near correlations between the atoms are established, causing a confinement effect: a shielding of radiation in the active medium. 
0704.03413	Constrained Supermanifolds for AdS M-Theory Backgrounds	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Pietro Fré, Pietro Antonio Grassi	 Abstract: A long standing problem is the supergauge completion of AdS_4 x (G/H)_7 or AdS_5 x (G/H)_5 backgrounds which preserve less then maximal supersymmetry. In parallel with the supersolvable realization of the AdS_4 x S^7 background based on Kappa-symmetry, we develop a technique which amounts to solving the above-mentioned problem in a way useful for pure spinor quantization for supermembranes and superstrings. Instead of gauge fixing some of the superspace coordinates to zero, we impose an additional constraint on them reproducing the simplifications of the supersolvable representations. The constraints are quadratic, homogeneous, Sp(4,R)-covariant, and consistent from the quantum point of view in the pure spinor approach. Here we provide the geometrical solution which, in a subsequent work, will be applied to the membrane and the superstring sigma models. 
0704.03414	Phantom field dynamics in loop quantum cosmology	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Daris Samart, Burin Gumjudpai (TPTP Naresuan U.)	 Abstract: We consider a dynamical system of phantom scalar field under exponential potential in background of loop quantum cosmology. In our analysis, there is neither stable node nor repeller unstable node but only two saddle points, hence no Big Rip singularity. Physical solutions always possess potential energy greater than magnitude of the negative kinetic energy. We found that the universe bounces after accelerating even in the domination of the phantom field. After bouncing, the universe finally enters oscillatory regime. 
0704.03415	Quantum decoherence in the theory of open systems	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:A. Isar	 Abstract: In the framework of the Lindblad theory for open quantum systems, we determine the degree of quantum decoherence of a harmonic oscillator interacting with a thermal bath. It is found that the system manifests a quantum decoherence which is more and more significant in time. We calculate also the decoherence time scale and analyze the transition from quantum to classical behaviour of the considered system. 
0704.03416	Complexity of Villamayor's algorithm in the non exceptional monomial  case	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Rocio Blanco	 Abstract: We study monomial ideals, always locally given by a monomial, like a reasonable first step to estimate in general the number of monoidal transformations of Villamayor's algorithm of resolution of singularities. The resolution of a monomial ideal $<X_1^{a_1}\cdot ... \cdot X_n^{a_n}>$ is interesting due to its identification with the particular toric problem $<Z^c- X_1^{a_1}\cdot ... \cdot X_n^{a_n}>$. In the special case, when all the exponents $a_i$ are greater than or equal to the critical value $c$, we construct the largest branch of the resolution tree which provides an upper bound involving partial sums of Catalan numbers. This case will be called ``minimal codimensional case''. Partial sums of Catalan numbers (starting $1,2,5,...$) are $1,3,8,22,...$ These partial sums are well known in Combinatorics and count the number of paths starting from the root in all ordered trees with $n+1$ edges. Catalan numbers appear in many combinatorial problems, counting the number of ways to insert $n$ pairs of parenthesis in a word of $n+1$ letters, plane trees with $n+1$ vertices, $... $, etc. The non minimal case, when there exists some exponent $a_{i_0}$ smaller than $c$, will be called ``case of higher codimension''. In this case, still unresolved, we give an example to state the foremost troubles. Computation of examples has been helpful in both cases to study the behaviour of the resolution invariant. Computations have been made in Singular (see \cite{sing}) using the \emph{desing} package by G. Bodn\'ar and J. Schicho, see \cite{lib}. 
0704.03417	Cohomology of the minimal nilpotent orbit	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Daniel Juteau	 Abstract: We compute the integral cohomology of the minimal non-trivial nilpotent orbit in a complex simple (or quasi-simple) Lie algebra. We find by a uniform approach that the middle cohomology group is isomorphic to the fundamental group of the sub-root system generated by the long simple roots. The modulo $\ell$ reduction of the Springer correspondent representation involves the sign representation exactly when $\ell$ divides the order of this cohomology group. The primes dividing the torsion of the rest of the cohomology are bad primes. 
0704.03418	Fourteen New Companions from the Keck & Lick Radial Velocity Survey  Including Five Brown Dwarf Candidates	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Shannon G. Patel (1), Steven S. Vogt (1), Geoffrey W. Marcy (2), John A. Johnson (2), Debra A. Fischer (3), Jason T. Wright (2), R. Paul Butler (4) ((1) UCSC, (2) Berkeley, (3) SFSU, (4) DTM)	 Abstract: We present radial velocities for 14 stars on the California & Carnegie Planet Search target list that reveal new companions. One star, HD 167665, was fit with a definitive Keplerian orbit leading to a minimum mass for the companion of 50.3 Mjup at a separation from its host of ~5.5 AU. Incomplete or limited phase coverage for the remaining 13 stars prevents us from assigning to them unique orbital parameters. Instead, we fit their radial velocities with Keplerian orbits across a grid of fixed values for Msini and period, P, and use the resulting reduced chi-square surface to place constraints on Msini, P, and semimajor axis, a. This technique allowed us to restrict Msini below the brown dwarf -- stellar mass boundary for an additional 4 companions (HD 150554, HD 8765, HD 72780, HD 74014). If the combined 5 companions are confirmed as brown dwarfs, these results would comprise the first major catch of such objects from our survey beyond ~3 AU. 
0704.03419	Zakharov simulation study of spectral features of on-demand Langmuir  turbulence in an inhomogeneous plasma	Space Physics (physics.space-ph)	Authors:Bengt Eliasson, Bo Thidé	 Abstract: We have performed a simulation study of Langmuir turbulence in the Earth's ionosphere by means of a Zakharov model with parameters relevant for the F layer. The model includes dissipative terms to model collisions and Landau damping of the electrons and ions, and a linear density profile, which models the ionospheric plasma inhomogeneity whose length scale is of the order 10--100 km. The injection of energy into the system is modeled by a constant source term in the Zakharov equation. Langmuir turbulence is excited ``on-demand'' in controlled ionospheric modification experiments where the energy is provided by an HF radio beam injected into the overhead ionospheric plasma. The ensuing turbulence can be studied with radars and in the form of secondary radiation recorded by ground-based receivers. We have analyzed spectral signatures of the turbulence for different sets of parameters and different altitudes relative to the turning point of the linear Langmuir mode where the Langmuir frequency equals the local plasma frequency. By a parametric analysis, we have derived a simple scaling law, which links the spectral width of the turbulent frequency spectrum to the physical parameters in the ionosphere. The scaling law provides a quantitative relation between the physical parameters (temperatures, electron number density, ionospheric length scale, etc.) and the observed frequency spectrum. This law may be useful for interpreting experimental results. 
0704.03420	Lie fields revisited	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Peter Morgan	 Abstract: A class of interacting classical random fields is constructed using deformed *-algebras of creation and annihilation operators. The fields constructed are classical random field versions of "Lie fields". A vacuum vector is used to construct linear forms over the algebras, which are conjectured to be states over the algebras. Assuming this conjecture is true, the fields constructed are "quantum random fields" in the sense that they have Poincare invariant vacua with a fluctuation scale determined by Planck's constant. A nonlocal particle interpretation of the formalism is shown to be the same as a particle interpretation of a quantum field theory. 
0704.03421	Finite Gorenstein representation type implies simple singularity	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:Lars Winther Christensen, Greg Piepmeyer, Janet Striuli, Ryo Takahashi	 Abstract: Let R be a commutative noetherian local ring and consider the set of isomorphism classes of indecomposable totally reflexive R-modules. We prove that if this set is finite, then either it has exactly one element, represented by the rank 1 free module, or R is Gorenstein and an isolated singularity (if R is complete, then it is even a simple hypersurface singularity). The crux of our proof is to argue that if the residue field has a totally reflexive cover, then R is Gorenstein or every totally reflexive R-module is free. 
0704.03422	Orthogonal complex structures on domains in R^4	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Simon Salamon, Jeff Viaclovsky	 Abstract: An orthogonal complex structure on a domain in R^4 is a complex structure which is integrable and is compatible with the Euclidean metric. This gives rise to a first order system of partial differential equations which is conformally invariant. We prove two Liouville-type uniqueness theorems for solutions of this system, and use these to give an alternative proof of the classification of compact locally conformally flat Hermitian surfaces first proved by Pontecorvo. We also give a classification of non-degenerate quadrics in CP^3 under the action of the conformal group. Using this classification, we show that generic quadrics give rise to orthogonal complex structures defined on the complement of unknotted solid tori which are smoothly embedded in R^4. 
0704.03423	Quantum Monte Carlo study of ring-shaped polariton parametric  luminescence in a semiconductor microcavity	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Arnaud Verger (LPA), Iacopo Carusotto (BEC-CNR-INFM), Cristiano Ciuti (MPQ)	 Abstract: We present a quantum Monte Carlo study of the quantum correlations in the parametric luminescence from semiconductor microcavities in the strong exciton-photon coupling regime. As already demonstrated in recent experiments, a ring-shaped emission is obtained by applying two identical pump beams with opposite in-plane wavevectors, providing symmetrical signal and idler beams with opposite in-plane wavevectors on the ring. We study the squeezing of the signal-idler difference noise across the parametric instability threshold, accounting for the radiative and non-radiative losses, multiple scattering and static disorder. We compare the results of the complete multimode Monte Carlo simulations with a simplified linearized quantum Langevin analytical model. 
0704.03424	A New Proof of Pappus's Theorem	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Jeremy J. Carroll	 Abstract: Any stretching of Ringel's non-Pappus pseudoline arrangement when projected into the Euclidean plane, implicitly contains a particular arrangement of nine triangles. This arrangement has a complex constraint involving the sines of its angles. These constraints cannot be satisfied by any projection of the initial arrangement. This is sufficient to prove Pappus's theorem. The derivation of the constraint is via systems of inequalities arising from the polar coordinates of the lines. These systems are linear in r for any given theta, and their solubility can be analysed in terms of the signs of determinants. The evaluation of the determinants is via a normal form for sums of products of sines, giving a powerful system of trigonometric identities. The particular result is generalized to arrangements derived from three edge connected totally cyclic directed graphs, conjectured to be sufficient for a complete analysis of angle constraining arrangements of lines, and thus a full response to Ringel's slope conjecture. These methods are generally applicable to the realizability problem for rank 3 oriented matroids. 
0704.03425	New Solvable Shape-Invariant Potentials for Position-Dependent Effective  Mass	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:S.-A. Yahiaoui, H. Zerguini, M. Bentaiba	 Abstract: Four new exactly solvable, real and shape-invariant potentials associated with a position-dependent effective mass are generated within the concept of shape-invariant potentials using a specific ansatz for superpotential. The accompanying energy spectra of the bound-state and the ground-state wavefunction are obtained algebraically as a function of free parameters and the results are compared with those of others works in the litterature. 
0704.03426	Large Nongaussianity from Nonlocal Inflation	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:N. Barnaby, J. M. Cline	 Abstract: We study the possibility of obtaining large nongaussian signatures in the Cosmic Microwave Background in a general class of single-field nonlocal hill-top inflation models. We estimate the nonlinearity parameter f_{NL} which characterizes nongaussianity in such models and show that large nongaussianity is possible. For the recently proposed p-adic inflation model we find that f_{NL} ~ 120 when the string coupling is order unity. We show that large nongaussianity is also possible in a toy model with an action similar to those which arise in string field theory. 
0704.03427	Five-parameter family of partial differential systems in two variables	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Yusuke Sasano	 Abstract: We find a five-parameter family of partial differential systems in two variables with two polynomial Hamiltonians. We give its symmetry and holomorphy conditions. These symmetries, holomorphy conditions and invariant divisors are new. 
0704.03428	Generation of strongly chaotic beats	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:I. Sliwa, P. Szlachetka, K. Grygiel	 Abstract: The letter proposes a procedure for generation of strongly chaotic beats that have been hardly obtainable hitherto. The beats are generated in a nonlinear optical system governing second-harmonic generation of light. The proposition is based on the concept of an optical coupler but can be easily adopted to other nonlinear systems and Chua's circuits. 
0704.03429	Light Propagation on Quantum Curved Spacetime and Back reaction effects	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Carlos Kozameh, Florencia Parisi	 Abstract: We study the electromagnetic field equations on an arbitrary quantum curved background in the semiclassical approximation of Loop Quantum Gravity. The effective interaction hamiltonian for the Maxwell and gravitational fields is obtained and the corresponding field equations, which can be expressed as a modified wave equation for the Maxwell potential, are derived. We use these results to analyze electromagnetic wave propagation on a quantum Robertson-Walker space time and show that Lorentz Invariance is not preserved. The formalism developed can be applied to the case where back reaction effects on the metric due to the electromagnetic field are taken into account, leading to non covariant field equations. 
0704.03430	Prospects for precision measurements of atomic helium using direct  frequency comb spectroscopy	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:E. E. Eyler, D. E. Chieda, Matthew C. Stowe, Michael J. Thorpe, T. R. Schibli, Jun Ye	 Abstract: We analyze several possibilities for precisely measuring electronic transitions in atomic helium by the direct use of phase-stabilized femtosecond frequency combs. Because the comb is self-calibrating and can be shifted into the ultraviolet spectral region via harmonic generation, it offers the prospect of greatly improved accuracy for UV and far-UV transitions. To take advantage of this accuracy an ultracold helium sample is needed. For measurements of the triplet spectrum a magneto-optical trap (MOT) can be used to cool and trap metastable 2^3S state atoms. We analyze schemes for measuring the two-photon $2^3S \to 4^3S$ interval, and for resonant two-photon excitation to high Rydberg states, $2^3S \to 3^3P \to n^3S,D$. We also analyze experiments on the singlet-state spectrum. To accomplish this we propose schemes for producing and trapping ultracold helium in the 1^1S or 2^1S state via intercombination transitions. A particularly intriguing scenario is the possibility of measuring the $1^1S \to 2^1S$ transition with extremely high accuracy by use of two-photon excitation in a magic wavelength trap that operates identically for both states. We predict a ``triple magic wavelength'' at 412 nm that could facilitate numerous experiments on trapped helium atoms, because here the polarizabilities of the 1^1S, 2^1S and 2^3S states are all similar, small, and positive. 
0704.03431	Suppressed radio emission in supercluster galaxies: enhanced ram  pressure in merging clusters?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jean-Christophe Mauduit (1), Gary A. Mamon (1,2) ((1) Institut d'Astrophysique de Paris (2) GEPI, Observatoire de Paris)	 Abstract: The environmental influence on the 1.4 GHz continuum radio emission of galaxies is analyzed in a 600 deg2 region of the local Universe containing the Shapley Supercluster (SSC). Galaxies in the FLASH and 6dFGS redshift surveys are cross-identified with NVSS radio sources, selected in a subsample doubly complete in volume and luminosity. Environmental effects are studied through a smoothed density field (normalized with random catalogs with the same survey edges and redshift selection function) and the distance to the nearest cluster (R/r200, where r200 is the virial radius, whose relation to the aperture velocity dispersion is quantified). The fraction of high radio loudness (R_K=L_radio/L_K) galaxies in the 10 Mpc Abell 3558 cluster complex at the core of the SSC (SSC-CR) is half as large than elsewhere. In the SSC-CR, R_K is anti-correlated with the density of the large-scale environment and correlated with R/r200: central brightest cluster galaxies (BCGs) in the SSC-CR are 10x less radio-loud than BCGs elsewhere, with signs of suppressed radio loudness in the SSC-CR also present beyond the BCGs, out to at least 0.3 r200. This correlation is nearly as strong as the tight correlation of L_K with R/r200 (K-luminosity segregation), inside the SSC-CR. The suppression of radio loudness in SSC-CR BCGs can be attributed to cluster-cluster mergers that destroy the cool core and thus the supply of gas to the central AGN. We analytically demonstrate that the low radio loudness of non-BCG galaxies within SSC-CR clusters cannot be explained by direct major galaxy mergers or rapid galaxy flyby collisions, but by the loss of gas supply through the enhanced ram pressure felt when these galaxies cross the shock front between the 2 merging clusters and are later subjected to the stronger wind from the 2nd cluster. 
0704.03432	Quantum simulators, continuous-time automata, and translationally  invariant systems	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:K. G. H. Vollbrecht, J. I. Cirac	 Abstract: The general problem of finding the ground state energy of lattice Hamiltonians is known to be very hard, even for a quantum computer. We show here that this is the case even for translationally invariant systems. We also show that a quantum computer can be built in a 1D chain with a fixed, translationally invariant Hamitonian consisting of nearest--neighbor interactions only. The result of the computation is obtained after a prescribed time with high probability. 
0704.03433	Bayesian approach to rough set	Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)	Authors:Tshilidzi Marwala, Bodie Crossingham	 Abstract: This paper proposes an approach to training rough set models using Bayesian framework trained using Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) method. The prior probabilities are constructed from the prior knowledge that good rough set models have fewer rules. Markov Chain Monte Carlo sampling is conducted through sampling in the rough set granule space and Metropolis algorithm is used as an acceptance criteria. The proposed method is tested to estimate the risk of HIV given demographic data. The results obtained shows that the proposed approach is able to achieve an average accuracy of 58% with the accuracy varying up to 66%. In addition the Bayesian rough set give the probabilities of the estimated HIV status as well as the linguistic rules describing how the demographic parameters drive the risk of HIV. 
0704.03434	On sensing capacity of sensor networks for the class of linear  observation, fixed SNR models	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Shuchin Aeron, Manqi Zhao, Venkatesh Saligrama	 Abstract: In this paper we address the problem of finding the sensing capacity of sensor networks for a class of linear observation models and a fixed SNR regime. Sensing capacity is defined as the maximum number of signal dimensions reliably identified per sensor observation. In this context sparsity of the phenomena is a key feature that determines sensing capacity. Precluding the SNR of the environment the effect of sparsity on the number of measurements required for accurate reconstruction of a sparse phenomena has been widely dealt with under compressed sensing. Nevertheless the development there was motivated from an algorithmic perspective. In this paper our aim is to derive these bounds in an information theoretic set-up and thus provide algorithm independent conditions for reliable reconstruction of sparse signals. In this direction we first generalize the Fano's inequality and provide lower bounds to the probability of error in reconstruction subject to an arbitrary distortion criteria. Using these lower bounds to the probability of error, we derive upper bounds to sensing capacity and show that for fixed SNR regime sensing capacity goes down to zero as sparsity goes down to zero. This means that disproportionately more sensors are required to monitor very sparse events. Our next main contribution is that we show the effect of sensing diversity on sensing capacity, an effect that has not been considered before. Sensing diversity is related to the effective \emph{coverage} of a sensor with respect to the field. In this direction we show the following results (a) Sensing capacity goes down as sensing diversity per sensor goes down; (b) Random sampling (coverage) of the field by sensors is better than contiguous location sampling (coverage). 
0704.03435	Spontaneous chirality via long-range electrostatic forces	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Kevin L. Kohlstedt, Francisco Solis, Graziano Vernizzi, Monica Olvera de la Cruz	 Abstract: We consider a model for periodic patterns of charges constrained over a cylindrical surface. In particular we focus on patterns of chiral helices, achiral rings or vertical lamellae, with the constraint of global electroneutrality. We study the dependence of the patterns' size and pitch angle on the radius of the cylinder and salt concentration. We obtain a phase diagram by using numerical and analytic techniques. For pure Coulomb interactions, we find a ring phase for small radii and a chiral helical phase for large radii. At a critical salt concentration, the characteristic domain size diverges, resulting in macroscopic phase segregation of the components and restoring chiral symmetry. We discuss possible consequences and generalizations of our model. 
0704.03436	Mesoscopic fluctuations of the supercurrent in diffusive Josephson  junctions	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:M. Houzet, M. A. Skvortsov	 Abstract: We study mesoscopic fluctuations and weak localization correction to the supercurrent in Josephson junctions with coherent diffusive electron dynamics in the normal part. Two kinds of junctions are considered: a chaotic dot coupled to superconductors by tunnel barriers and a diffusive junction with transparent normal--superconducting interfaces. The amplitude of current fluctuations and the weak localization correction to the average current are calculated as functions of the ratio between the superconducting gap and the electron dwell energy, temperature, and superconducting phase difference across the junction. Technically, fluctuations on top of the spatially inhomogeneous proximity effect in the normal region are described by the replicated version of the \sigma-model. For the case of diffusive junctions with transparent interfaces, the magnitude of mesoscopic fluctuations of the critical current appears to be nearly 3 times larger than the prediction of the previous theory which did not take the proximity effect into account. 
0704.03437	Stellar kinematics in the remote Leo II dwarf spheroidal galaxy --  Another brick in the wall	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A.Koch, J.T. Kleyna, M.I. Wilkinson, E.K. Grebel, G.F. Gilmore, N.W. Evans, R.F.G. Wyse, D.R. Harbeck	 Abstract: We present the projected velocity dispersion profile for the remote (d=233kpc) Galactic dwarf spheroidal (dSph) galaxy Leo II, based on 171 discrete stellar radial velocities that were obtained from medium-resolution spectroscopy using the FLAMES/GIRAFFE spectrograph at the European Southern Observatory, Chile. The dispersion profile of those stars with good membership probabilities is essentially flat with an amplitude of 6.6+-0.7 km/s over the full radial extent of our data, which probe to the stellar boundary of this galaxy. We find no evidence of any significant apparent rotation or velocity asymmetry which suggests that tidal effects cannot be invoked to explain Leo II's properties. From basic mass modeling, employing Jeans' equation, we derive a mass out to the limiting radius of (2.7+-0.5) 10^7 Msun and a global mass to light ratio of 27-45 in solar units, depending on the adopted total luminosity. A cored halo profile and a mild amount of tangential velocity anisotropy is found to account well for Leo II's observed kinematics, although we cannot exclude the possibility of a cusped halo with radially varying velocity anisotropy. All in all, this galaxy exhibits dark matter properties which appear to be concordant with the other dSph satellites of the Milky Way, namely a halo mass profile which is consistent with a central core and a total mass which is similar to the common mass scale seen in other dSphs. 
0704.03438	Black-body components in Gamma-Ray Bursts spectra?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G. Ghirlanda (1), Z. Bosnjak (2,1), G. Ghisellini (1), F. Tavecchio (1), C. Firmani (1,3) ((1) INAF-Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera; (2) Institut d'Astrophysique de Paris; (3) U.N.A.M. - Mexico)	 Abstract: We study 7 Gamma Ray Bursts (GRBs), detected both by the BATSE instrument, on-board the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory, and by the Wide Field Camera (WFC), on-board BeppoSAX. These bursts have measured spectroscopic redshifts and are a sizeable fraction of the bursts defining the correlation between the peak energy E_peak (i.e. the peak of the vFv spectrum) and the total prompt isotropic energy E_iso (the so called "Amati" relation). Recent theoretical interpretations of this correlation assume that black-body emission dominates the time resolved spectra of GRBs, even if, in the time integrated spectrum, its presence may be hidden by the change of its temperature and by the dilution of a possible non-thermal power law component. We perform a time resolved spectral analysis, and show that the sum of a power-law and a black-body gives acceptable fits to the time dependent spectra within the BATSE energy range, but overpredicts the flux in the WFC X-ray range. Moreover, a fit with a cutoff power-law plus a black-body is consistent with the WFC data, but the black-body component contributes a negligible fraction of the total flux. On the contrary, we find that fitting the spectra with a Band model or a simple cutoff power-law model yields an X-ray flux and spectral slope which well matches the WFC spectra. 
0704.03439	The symmetric heavy-light ansatz	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Dean Lee (North Carolina State University)	 Abstract: The symmetric heavy-light ansatz is a method for finding the ground state of any dilute unpolarized system of attractive two-component fermions. Operationally it can be viewed as a generalization of the Kohn-Sham equations in density functional theory applied to N-body density correlations. While the original Hamiltonian has an exact Z_2 symmetry, the heavy-light ansatz breaks this symmetry by skewing the mass ratio of the two components. In the limit where one component is infinitely heavy, the many-body problem can be solved in terms of single-particle orbitals. The original Z_2 symmetry is recovered by enforcing Z_2 symmetry as a constraint on N-body density correlations for the two components. For the 1D, 2D, and 3D attractive Hubbard models the method is in very good agreement with exact Lanczos calculations for few-body systems at arbitrary coupling. For the 3D attractive Hubbard model there is very good agreement with lattice Monte Carlo results for many-body systems in the limit of infinite scattering length. 
0704.03440	Dynamical models and the phase ordering kinetics of the s=1 spinor  condensate	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Subroto Mukerjee, Cenke Xu, Joel E. Moore	 Abstract: The $s=1$ spinor Bose condensate at zero temperature supports ferromagnetic and polar phases that combine magnetic and superfluid ordering. We investigate the formation of magnetic domains at finite temperature and magnetic field in two dimensions in an optical trap. We study the general ground state phase diagram of a spin-1 system and focus on a phase that has a magnetic Ising order parameter and numerically determine the nature of the finite temperature superfluid and magnetic phase transitions. We then study three different dynamical models: model A, which has no conserved quantities, model F, which has a conserved second sound mode and the Gross-Pitaevskii (GP) equation which has a conserved density and magnetization. We find the dynamic critical exponent to be the same for models A and F ($z=2$) but different for GP ($z \approx 3$). Externally imposed magnetization conservation in models A and F yields the value $z \approx 3$, which demonstrates that the only conserved density relevant to domain formation is the magnetization density. 
0704.03441	Anisotropic Locations of Satellite Galaxies: Clues to the Orientations  of Galaxies within their Dark Matter Halos	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Ingolfur Agustsson, Tereasa G. Brainerd	 Abstract: We investigate the locations of the satellites of relatively isolated host galaxies in the Sloan Digital Sky Survey and the Millennium Run simulation. Provided we use two distinct prescriptions to embed luminous galaxies within the simulated dark matter halos (ellipticals share the shapes of their halos, while disks have angular momenta that are aligned with the net angular momenta of their halos), we find a fair agreement between observation and theory. Averaged over scales r_p \le 500 kpc, the satellites of red, high-mass hosts with low star formation rates are found preferentially near the major axes of their hosts. In contrast, the satellites of blue, low-mass hosts with low star formation rates show little to no anisotropy when averaged over the same scale. The difference between the locations of the satellites of red and blue hosts cannot be explained by the effects of interlopers in the data. Instead, it is caused primarily by marked differences in the dependence of the mean satellite location, <\phi>, on the projected distance at which the satellites are found. We also find that the locations of red, high-mass satellites with low star formation rates show considerably more anisotropy than do the locations of blue, low--mass satellites with high star formation rates. There are two contributors to this result. First, the blue satellites have only recently arrived within their hosts' halos, while the red satellites arrived in the far distant past. Second, the sample of blue satellites is heavily contaminated by interlopers, which suppresses the measured anisotropy compared to the intrinsic anisotropy. 
0704.03442	1/2-BPS states in M theory and defects in the dual CFTs	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Oleg Lunin	 Abstract: We study supersymmetric branes in AdS_7 x S^4 and AdS_4 x S^7. We show that in the former case the membranes should be viewed as M5 branes with fluxes and we identify two types of such fivebranes (they are analogous to giant gravitons and to dual giants). In AdS_4 x S^7 we find both M5 branes with fluxes and freestanding stacks of membranes. We also go beyond probe approximation and construct regular supergravity solutions describing geometries produced by the branes. The metrics are completely specified by one function which satisfies either Laplace or Toda equation and we give a complete classification of boundary conditions leading to smooth geometries. The brane configurations discussed in this paper are dual to various defects in three- and six-dimensional conformal field theories. 
0704.03443	Corestrictions of algebras and splitting fields	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Daniel Krashen	 Abstract: Given a field $F$, an \'etale extension $L/F$ and an Azumaya algebra $A/L$, one knows that there are extensions $E/F$ such that $A \otimes_F E$ is a split algebra over $L \otimes_F E$. In this paper we bound the degree of a minimal splitting field of this type from above and show that our bound is sharp in certain situations, even in the case where $L/F$ is a split extension. This gives in particular a number of generalizations of the classical fact that when the tensor product of two quaternion algebras is not a division algebra, the two quaternion algebras must share a common quadratic splitting field. In another direction, our constructions combined with results of Karpenko also show that for any odd prime number $p$, the generic algebra of index $p^n$, and exponent $p$ cannot be expressed nontrivially as the corestriction of an algebra over any extension field if $n < p^2$. 
0704.03444	A Symmetric Free Energy Based Multi-Component Lattice Boltzmann Method	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Qun Li, A.J. Wagner	 Abstract: We present a lattice Boltzmann algorithm based on an underlying free energy that allows the simulation of the dynamics of a multicomponent system with an arbitrary number of components. The thermodynamic properties, such as the chemical potential of each component and the pressure of the overall system, are incorporated in the model. We derived a symmetrical convection diffusion equation for each component as well as the Navier Stokes equation and continuity equation for the overall system. The algorithm was verified through simulations of binary and ternary systems. The equilibrium concentrations of components of binary and ternary systems simulated with our algorithm agree well with theoretical expectations. 
0704.03445	Lower Spectral Branches of a Spin-Boson Model	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Nicolae Angelescu (NIPNE), Robert Minlos (IITP), Jean Ruiz (CPT), Valentin Zagrebnov (CPT)	 Abstract: We study the structure of the spectrum of a two-level quantum system weakly coupled to a boson field (spin-boson model). Our analysis allows to avoid the cutoff in the number of bosons, if their spectrum is bounded below by a positive constant. We show that, for small coupling constant, the lower part of the spectrum of the spin-boson Hamiltonian contains (one or two) isolated eigenvalues and (respectively, one or two) manifolds of atom $+ 1$-boson states indexed by the boson momentum $q$. The dispersion laws and generalized eigenfunctions of the latter are calculated. 
0704.03446	Phenomenology of GUT-less Supersymmetry Breaking	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:John Ellis, Keith A. Olive, Pearl Sandick	 Abstract: We study models in which supersymmetry breaking appears at an intermediate scale, M_{in}, below the GUT scale. We assume that the soft supersymmetry-breaking parameters of the MSSM are universal at M_{in}, and analyze the morphology of the constraints from cosmology and collider experiments on the allowed regions of parameter space as M_{in} is reduced from the GUT scale. We present separate analyses of the (m_{1/2},m_0) planes for tan(beta)=10 and tan(beta)=50, as well as a discussion of non-zero trilinear couplings, A_0. Specific scenarios where the gaugino and scalar masses appear to be universal below the GUT scale have been found in mirage-mediation models, which we also address here. We demand that the lightest neutralino be the LSP, and that the relic neutralino density not conflict with measurements by WMAP and other observations. At moderate values of M_{in}, we find that the allowed regions of the (m_{1/2},m_0) plane are squeezed by the requirements of electroweak symmetry breaking and that the lightest neutralino be the LSP, whereas the constraint on the relic density is less severe. At very low M_{in}, the electroweak vacuum conditions become the dominant constraint, and a secondary source of astrophysical cold dark matter would be necessary to explain the measured relic density for nearly all values of the soft SUSY-breaking parameters and tan(beta). We calculate the neutralino-nucleon cross sections for viable scenarios and compare them with the present and projected limits from direct dark matter searches. 
0704.03447	Real Time Turbulent Video Perfecting by Image Stabilization and  Super-Resolution	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Barak Fishbain, Leonid P. Yaroslavsky, Ianir A. Ideses	 Abstract: Image and video quality in Long Range Observation Systems (LOROS) suffer from atmospheric turbulence that causes small neighbourhoods in image frames to chaotically move in different directions and substantially hampers visual analysis of such image and video sequences. The paper presents a real-time algorithm for perfecting turbulence degraded videos by means of stabilization and resolution enhancement. The latter is achieved by exploiting the turbulent motion. The algorithm involves generation of a reference frame and estimation, for each incoming video frame, of a local image displacement map with respect to the reference frame; segmentation of the displacement map into two classes: stationary and moving objects and resolution enhancement of stationary objects, while preserving real motion. Experiments with synthetic and real-life sequences have shown that the enhanced videos, generated in real time, exhibit substantially better resolution and complete stabilization for stationary objects while retaining real motion. 
0704.03448	Finite Euler products and the Riemann Hypothesis	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:S. M. Gonek	 Abstract: We show that if the Riemann Hypothesis is true, then in a region containing most of the right-half of the critical strip, the Riemann zeta-function is well approximated by short truncations of its Euler product. Conversely, if the approximation by products is good in this region, the zeta-function has at most finitely many zeros in it. We then construct a parameterized family of non-analytic functions with this same property. With the possible exception of a finite number of zeros off the critical line, every function in the family satisfies a Riemann Hypothesis. Moreover, when the parameter is not too large, they have about the same number of zeros as the zeta-function, their zeros are all simple, and they "repel". The structure of these functions makes the reason for the simplicity and repulsion of their zeros apparent and suggests a mechanism that might be responsible for the corresponding properties of the zeta-function's zeros. Computer evidence suggests that the zeros of functions in the family are remarkably close to those of the zeta-function (even for small values of the parameter), and we show that they indeed converge to them as the parameter increases. Furthermore, between zeros of the zeta-function, the moduli of functions in the family tend to twice the modulus of the zeta-function. Both assertions assume the Riemann Hypothesis. We end by discussing analogues for other L-functions and show how they give insight into the study of the distribution of zeros of linear combinations of L-functions. 
0704.03449	Trapping of Compensating Charges in Corona Poled PVDF Films	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:A. F. Butenko, S. N. Fedosov, A. E. Sergeeva	 Abstract: Experimental evidence is provided on close relation between polarization and space charge in corona poled PVDF films. It is shown that the depolarizing field is compensated by charges trapped in macroscopic transition zones, by which polarized parts of the volume are separated from non-polarized ones. The compensating charges are either injected in the bulk, or created inside due to the thermal emission and then trapped when the ferroelectric polarization in crystallites is formed. 
0704.03450	The center of the generic algebra of degree p	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Esther Beneish	 Abstract: Let $F$ be an algebraically closed field of characteristic zero, and let $p$ be an odd prime. We show that the center of the generic division algebra of degree $p$ is stably rational over $F$. Equivalently, if we let $V=M_p(F) \oplus M_p(F)$ and $PGL_p$ act on $V$ by simultaneous conjugation, then we show that the function field of the quotient variety $V/PGL_p$ is stably rational over $F$. 
0704.03451	Localized Electron States Near a Metal-Semiconductor Nanocontact	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Denis O. Demchenko, Lin-Wang Wang	 Abstract: The electronic structure of nanowires in contact with metallic electrodes of experimentally relevant sizes is calculated by incorporating the electrostatic polarization potential into the atomistic single particle Schr\"odinger equation. We show that the presence of an electrode produces localized electron/hole states near the electrode, a phenomenon only exhibited in nanostructures and overlooked in the past. This phenomenon will have profound implications on electron transport in such nanosystems. We calculate several electrode/nanowire geometries, with varying contact depths and nanowire radii. We demonstrate the change in the band gap of up to 0.5 eV in 3 nm diameter CdSe nanowires and calculate the magnitude of the applied electric field necessary to overcome the localization. 
0704.03452	Coarsening of "clouds" and dynamic scaling in a far-from-equilibrium  model system	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:D.A. Adams, B. Schmittmann, R.K.P. Zia	 Abstract: A two-dimensional lattice gas of two species, driven in opposite directions by an external force, undergoes a jamming transition if the filling fraction is sufficiently high. Using Monte Carlo simulations, we investigate the growth of these jams ("clouds"), as the system approaches a non-equilibrium steady state from a disordered initial state. We monitor the dynamic structure factor $S(k_x,k_y;t)$ and find that the $k_x=0$ component exhibits dynamic scaling, of the form $S(0,k_y;t)=t^\beta \tilde{S}(k_yt^\alpha)$. Over a significant range of times, we observe excellent data collapse with $\alpha=1/2$ and $\beta=1$. The effects of varying filling fraction and driving force are discussed. 
0704.03453	An Adaptive Strategy for the Classification of G-Protein Coupled  Receptors	Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)	Authors:S. Mohamed, D. Rubin, T. Marwala	 Abstract: One of the major problems in computational biology is the inability of existing classification models to incorporate expanding and new domain knowledge. This problem of static classification models is addressed in this paper by the introduction of incremental learning for problems in bioinformatics. Many machine learning tools have been applied to this problem using static machine learning structures such as neural networks or support vector machines that are unable to accommodate new information into their existing models. We utilize the fuzzy ARTMAP as an alternate machine learning system that has the ability of incrementally learning new data as it becomes available. The fuzzy ARTMAP is found to be comparable to many of the widespread machine learning systems. The use of an evolutionary strategy in the selection and combination of individual classifiers into an ensemble system, coupled with the incremental learning ability of the fuzzy ARTMAP is proven to be suitable as a pattern classifier. The algorithm presented is tested using data from the G-Coupled Protein Receptors Database and shows good accuracy of 83%. The system presented is also generally applicable, and can be used in problems in genomics and proteomics. 
0704.03454	Detailed Models of super-Earths: How well can we infer bulk properties?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Diana Valencia (1), Dimitar D. Sasselov (2), Richard J. O'Connell (1); ((1) Earth and Planetary Sciences Dept., Harvard University; (2) Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics)	 Abstract: The field of extrasolar planets has rapidly expanded to include the detection of planets with masses smaller than that of Uranus. Many of these are expected to have little or no hydrogen and helium gas and we might find Earth analogs among them. In this paper we describe our detailed interior models for a rich variety of such massive terrestrial and ocean planets in the 1-to-10 earth-mass range (super-Earths). The grid presented here allows the characterization of the bulk composition of super-Earths detected in transit and with a measured mass. We show that, on average, planet radius measurements to better than 5%, combined with mass measurements to better than 10% would permit us to distinguish between an icy or rocky composition. This is due to the fact that there is a maximum radius a rocky terrestrial planet may achieve for a given mass. Any value of the radius above this maximum terrestrial radius implies that the planet contains a large (> 10%) amount of water (ocean planet). 
0704.03455	The Distribution of AGN in Clusters of Galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Paul Martini (Ohio State), John S. Mulchaey, Daniel D. Kelson (Carnegie Observatories)	 Abstract: We present a study of the distribution of AGN in clusters of galaxies with a uniformly selected, spectroscopically complete sample of 35 AGN in eight clusters at z = 0.06 to 0.31. We find that the 12 AGN with L_X > 10^42 erg/s in galaxies more luminous than a rest-frame M_R < -20 mag are more centrally concentrated than typical cluster galaxies of this luminosity, although these AGN have comparable velocity and substructure distributions to other cluster members. In contrast, a larger sample of 30 cluster AGN with L_X > 10^41 erg/s do not show evidence for greater concentration than inactive members, nor evidence for a different kinematic or substructure distribution. As we do see clear differences in the spatial and kinematic distributions of the blue Butcher-Oemler and red galaxy populations, any difference in the AGN and inactive galaxy population must be less distinct than that between these two pairs of populations. Comparison of the AGN fraction selected via X-ray emission in this study to similarly-selected AGN in the field indicates that the AGN fraction is not significantly lower in clusters, contrary to AGN identified via visible-wavelength emission lines, but similar to the approximately constant radio-selected AGN fraction in clusters and the field. We also find significant evidence for variation between clusters and explore the dependence of cluster AGN fraction on redshift, velocity dispersion, cluster substructure, and Butcher-Oemler fraction. While we see weak evidence for several trends, correlations between these four parameters in our small sample precludes identification of which one(s) most strongly influence the cluster AGN fraction. 
0704.03456	Spectral methods for orthogonal rational functions	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Luis Velazquez	 Abstract: An operator theoretic approach to orthogonal rational functions on the unit circle with poles in its exterior is presented in this paper. This approach is based on the identification of a suitable matrix representation of the multiplication operator associated with the corresponding orthogonality measure. Two different alternatives are discussed, depending whether we use for the matrix representation the standard basis of orthogonal rational functions, or a new one with poles alternatively located in the exterior and the interior of the unit circle. The corresponding representations are linear fractional transformations with matrix coefficients acting respectively on Hessenberg and five-diagonal unitary matrices. In consequence, the orthogonality measure can be recovered from the spectral measure of an infinite unitary matrix depending uniquely on the poles and the parameters of the recurrence relation for the orthogonal rational functions. Besides, the zeros of the orthogonal and para-orthogonal rational functions are identified as the eigenvalues of matrix linear fractional transformations of finite Hessenberg and five-diagonal matrices. As an application of this operator approach, we obtain new relations between the support of the orthogonality measure and the location of the poles and parameters of the recurrence relation, generalizing to the rational case known results for orthogonal polynomials on the unit circle. Finally, we extend these results to orthogonal polynomials on the real line with poles in the lower half plane. 
0704.03457	Cooper channel and the singularities in the thermodynamics of a Fermi  liquid	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Andrey V. Chubukov, Dmitrii L. Maslov	 Abstract: We analyze how the logarithmic renormalizations in the Cooper channel affect the non-analytic temperature dependence of the specific heat coefficient \gamma (T) - \gamma (0)=A(T)T in a 2D Fermi liquid. We show that A(T) is expressed exactly in terms of the fully renormalized backscattering amplitude which includes the renormalization in the Cooper channel. In contrast to the 1D case, both charge and spin components of the backscattering amplitudes are subject to this renormalization. We show that the logarithmic renormalization of the charge amplitude vanishes for a flat Fermi surface, when the system becomes effectively one-dimensional. 
0704.03458	Searching for Lee-Wick Gauge Bosons at the LHC	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Thomas G. Rizzo	 Abstract: In an extension of the Standard Model(SM) based on the ideas of Lee and Wick, Grinstein, O'Connell and Wise have found an interesting way to remove the usual quadratically divergent contributions to the Higgs mass induced by radiative corrections. Phenomenologically, the model predicts the existence of Terascale, negative-norm copies of the usual SM fields with rather unique properties: ghost-like propagators and negative decay widths, but with otherwise SM-like couplings. The model is both unitary and causal on macroscopic scales. In this paper we examine whether or not such states with these unusual properties can be uniquely identified as such at the LHC. We find that in the extended strong and electroweak gauge boson sector of the model, which is the simplest one to analyze, such an identification can be rather difficult. Observation of heavy gluon-like resonances in the dijet channel offers the best hope for this identification. 
0704.03459	Systematic Error on Weak Phase $γ$ from $B \to π^+ π^-$ and $B  \to K π$	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Michael Gronau, Jonathan L. Rosner	 Abstract: When CP asymmetries in $B^0(t)\to \pi^+ \pi^-$ are combined using broken flavor SU(3) with decay rates for $B^+\to K^0\pi^+$ and/or $B^0\to K^+\pi^-$, one can obtain stringent limits on the weak phase $\gamma$ which are consistent with those obtained from other CKM constraints. Experimental data in the past few years have improved to the extent that systematic errors associated with uncertainty in SU(3) symmetry breaking dominate the determination of $\gamma$. We obtain a value $\gamma =(73 \pm 4^{+10}_{-8})^\circ$, where the first error is statistical while the second one is systematic. 
0704.03460	Two-color atom guide and 1D optical lattice using evanescent fields of  high-order transverse modes	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Jian Fu, Xiang Yin, Limin Tong	 Abstract: We propose a two-color scheme of atom guide and 1D optical lattice using evanescent light fields of different transverse modes. The optical waveguide carries a red-detuned light and a blue-detuned light, with both modes far from resonance. The atom guide and 1D optical lattice potentials can be transformed to each other by using a Mach-Zehnder interferometer to accurately control mode transformation. This might provide a new approach to realize flexible transition between the guiding and trapping states of atoms. 
0704.03461	The vector-scalar mixing in nuclear medium and the two quark component  of scalar meson from QCD sum rules	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Su Houng Lee, Takumi Doi	 Abstract: We derive the QCD sum rules for the vector and scalar meson mixing in nuclear medium, using a two quark interpolating field for both mesons. Modeling the mixing via a nucleon hole contribution with known coupling constant, the sum rule can be used to determine the overlap of the interpolating field and the scalar meson. In the I=0 channel, we find a stable Borel curve and an overlap that is about 10% of the corresponding value in the pseudo scalar or vector channel. The sum rule in the I=1 channel is less reliable but also consistent with a small value for the overlap. These results suggest that both the $\sigma$ and $a_0$ have a small two quark and thus probably a large tetraquark components. We discuss the possibility of observing these scalar mesons from vector mesons emanating from the nuclear medium. 
0704.03462	On the Non-relativistic Limit of Linear Wave Equations for Zero and  Unity Spin Particles	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:P.Yu. Moshin, J.L. Tomazelli	 Abstract: The non-relativistic limit of the linear wave equation for zero and unity spin bosons of mass $m$ in the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau representation is investigated by means of a unitary transformation, analogous to the Foldy-Wouthuysen canonical transformation for a relativistic electron. The interacting case is also analyzed, by considering a power series expansion of the transformed Hamiltonian, thus demonstrating that all features of particle dynamics can be recovered if corrections of order $1/m^{2}$ are taken into account through a recursive iteration procedure. 
0704.03463	Landau-Zener transition of a two-level system driven by spin chains near  their critical points	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:L. C. Wang, X. L. Huang, X. X. Yi	 Abstract: The Landau-Zener(LZ) transition of a two-level system coupling to spin chains near their critical points is studied in this paper. Two kinds of spin chains, the Ising spin chain and XY spin chain, are considered. We calculate and analyze the effects of system-chain coupling on the LZ transition. A relation between the LZ transition and the critical points of the spin chain is established. These results suggest that LZ transitions may serve as the witnesses of criticality of the spin chain. This may provide a new way to study quantum phase transitions as well as LZ transitions. 
0704.03464	Constraints on $N_c$ in Extensions of the Standard Model	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Robert Shrock	 Abstract: We consider a class of theories involving an extension of the Standard Model gauge group to an {\it a priori} arbitrary number of colors, $N_c$, and derive constraints on $N_c$. One motivation for this is the string theory landscape. For two natural classes of embeddings of this $N_c$-extended Standard Model in a supersymmetric grand unified theory, we show that requiring unbroken electromagnetic gauge invariance, asymptotic freedom of color, and three generations of quarks and leptons forces one to choose $N_c=3$. Similarly, we show that for a theory combining the $N_c$-extended Standard Model with a one-family SU(2)$_{TC}$ technicolor theory, only the value $N_c=3$ is allowed. 
0704.03465	Current prospects for ASTROD Inertial Sensor	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Antonio Pulido Paton	 Abstract: The Astrodynamical Space Test of Relativity using Optical Devices (ASTROD) is a multi-purpose relativity mission concept. ASTROD's scientific goals are the measurement of relativistic and solar system parameters to unprecedented precision, and the detection and observation of low-frequency gravitational waves to frequencies down to $5\times10^{-6}$ Hz. To accomplish its goals, ASTROD will employ a constellation of drag-free satellites, aiming for a residual acceleration noise of (0.3-1)$\times$ 10$^{-15}$ m s$^{-2}$ Hz$^{-1/2}$ at 0.1 mHz. Noise sources and strategies for improving present acceleration noise levels are reported. 
0704.03466	Optimal Electrostatic Space Tower (Mast, New Space Elevator)	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Alexander Bolonkin	 Abstract: Author offers and researched the new and revolutionary inflatable electrostatic AB space towers (mast, new space elevator) up to one hundred twenty thousands kilometers (or more) in height. The main innovation is filling the tower by electron gas, which can create pressure up one atmosphere, has negligible small weight and surprising properties. The suggested mast has following advantages in comparison with conventional space elevator: 1. Electrostatic AB tower may be built from Earth surface without the employment of any rockets. That decreases the cost of electrostatic mast by thousands of times. 2. One can have any height and has a big control load capacity. 3. Electrostatic tower can have the height of a geosynchronous orbit (36,000 km) WITHOUT the additional top cable as the space elevator (up 120,000 - 160,000 km) and counterweight (equalizer) of hundreds of tons. 4. The offered mast has less total mass than conventional space elevator. 5. The offered tower can have the high-speed electrostatic climbers moved by high-voltage electricity from Earth's surface. 6. The electrostatic mast can bend in any needed direction when we give the necessary electric voltage in the required parts of the extended mast. 7. Control mast has stability for any altitude. Three projects 100 km, 36,000km (GEO), 120,000 km are computed and presented. 
0704.03467	Second and higher-order quasi-normal modes in binary black hole mergers	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Kunihito Ioka, Hiroyuki Nakano	 Abstract: Black hole (BH) oscillations known as quasi-normal modes (QNMs) are one of the most important gravitational wave (GW) sources. We propose that higher perturbative order of QNMs, generated by nonlinear gravitational interaction near the BHs, are detectable and worth searching for in observations and simulations of binary BH mergers. We calculate the metric perturbations to second-order and explicitly regularize the master equation at the horizon and spatial infinity. We find that the second-order QNMs have frequencies twice the first-order ones and the GW amplitude is up to ~10% that of the first-order one. The QNM frequency would also shift blueward up to ~1%. This provides a new test of general relativity as well as a possible distance indicator. 
0704.03468	Uniqueness of solutions of Ricci flow on complete noncompact manifolds	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Shu-Yu Hsu	 Abstract: We prove the uniqueness of solutions of the Ricci flow on complete noncompact manifolds with bounded curvatures using the De Turck approach. As a consequence we obtain a correct proof of the existence of solution of the Ricci harmonic flow on complete noncompact manifolds with bounded curvatures. 
0704.03469	The enumeration of maximally clustered permutations	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Hugh Denoncourt, Brant C. Jones	 Abstract: The maximally clustered permutations are characterized by avoiding the classical permutation patterns 3421, 4312, and 4321. This class contains the freely-braided permutations and the fully-commutative permutations. In this work, we show that the generating functions for certain fully-commutative pattern classes can be transformed to give generating functions for the corresponding freely-braided and maximally clustered pattern classes. Moreover, this transformation of generating functions is rational. As a result, we obtain enumerative formulas for the pattern classes mentioned above as well as the corresponding hexagon-avoiding pattern classes where the hexagon-avoiding permutations are characterized by avoiding 46718235, 46781235, 56718234, and 56781234. 
0704.03470	Radiative properties of a linear chain of coupled qubits	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:C. J. Mewton, Z. Ficek	 Abstract: We calculate the radiative properties for a linear dipole-coupled chain of qubits. Using the explicit energy eigenstates of the system, we find the radiation patterns for spontaneous transitions from the one-photon eigenstates to the ground state of the system. We show that depending on the excitation of a specific atom, the radiation tends to be focused either along or perpendicular to the chain. We conclude with a derivation of the total decay rate of the one-photon eigenstates, and find the interesting result that for systems where the photon wavenumber is not much larger than the interatomic spacing, up to 94% of the eigenstates are subradiant, that is, they decay significantly slower than a single atom in isolation. 
0704.03471	Elimination Theory for Tropical Varieties	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Bernd Sturmfels, Jenia Tevelev	 Abstract: Tropical algebraic geometry offers new tools for elimination theory and implicitization. We determine the tropicalization of the image of a subvariety of an algebraic torus under any homomorphism from that torus to another torus. 
0704.03472	Helioseismic analysis of the solar flare-induced sunquake of 2005  January 15	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:H. Moradi, A. -C. Donea, C. Lindsey, D. Besliu-Ionescu, P. S. Cally	 Abstract: We report the discovery of one of the most powerful sunquakes detected to date, produced by an X1.2-class solar flare in active region 10720 on 2005 January 15. We used helioseismic holography to image the source of seismic waves emitted into the solar interior from the site of the flare. Acoustic egression power maps at 3 and 6 mHz with a 2 mHz bandpass reveal a compact acoustic source strongly correlated with impulsive hard X-ray and visible-continuum emission along the penumbral neutral line separating the two major opposing umbrae in the $\delta$-configuration sunspot that predominates AR10720. The acoustic emission signatures were directly aligned with both hard X-ray and visible continuum emission that emanated during the flare. The visible continuum emission is estimated at $2.0 \times 10^{23}$ J, approximately 500 times the seismic emission of $\sim 4 \times 10^{20}$ J. The flare of 2005 January 15 exhibits the same close spatial alignment between the sources of the seismic emission and impulsive visible continuum emission as previous flares, reinforcing the hypothesis that the acoustic emission may be driven by heating of the low photosphere. However, it is a major exception in that there was no signature to indicate the inclusion of protons in the particle beams thought to supply the energy radiated by the flare. The continued strong coincidence between the sources of seismic emission and impulsive visible continuum emission in the case of a proton-deficient white-light flare lends substantial support to the ``back -- warming'' hypothesis, that the low photosphere is significantly heated by intense Balmer and Paschen continuum-edge radiation from the overlying chromosphere in white-light flares. 
0704.03473	Towards observable signatures of other bubble universes	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Anthony Aguirre, Matthew C Johnson, Assaf Shomer	 Abstract: We evaluate the possibility of observable effects arising from collisions between vacuum bubbles in a universe undergoing false-vacuum eternal inflation. Contrary to conventional wisdom, we find that under certain assumptions most positions inside a bubble should have access to a large number of collision events. We calculate the expected number and angular size distribution of such collisions on an observer's "sky," finding that for typical observers the distribution is anisotropic and includes many bubbles, each of which will affect the majority of the observer's sky. After a qualitative discussion of the physics involved in collisions between arbitrary bubbles, we evaluate the implications of our results, and outline possible detectable effects. In an optimistic sense, then, the present paper constitutes a first step in an assessment of the possible effects of other bubble universes on the cosmic microwave background and other observables. 
0704.03474	Missing Data: A Comparison of Neural Network and Expectation  Maximisation Techniques	Applications (stat.AP)	Authors:Fulufhelo V. Nelwamondo, Shakir Mohamed, Tshilidzi Marwala	 Abstract: The estimation of missing input vector elements in real time processing applications requires a system that possesses the knowledge of certain characteristics such as correlations between variables, which are inherent in the input space. Computational intelligence techniques and maximum likelihood techniques do possess such characteristics and as a result are important for imputation of missing data. This paper compares two approaches to the problem of missing data estimation. The first technique is based on the current state of the art approach to this problem, that being the use of Maximum Likelihood (ML) and Expectation Maximisation (EM. The second approach is the use of a system based on auto-associative neural networks and the Genetic Algorithm as discussed by Adbella and Marwala3. The estimation ability of both of these techniques is compared, based on three datasets and conclusions are made. 
0704.03475	On UHECR energy estimation algorithms based on the measurement of  electromagnetic component parameters in EAS	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A.A. Ivanov	 Abstract: Model calculations are performed of extensive air shower (EAS) component energies using a variety of hadronic interaction parameters. A conversion factor from electromagnetic component energy to the energy of ultra-high energy cosmic rays (UHECRs) and its model and primary mass dependence is studied. It is shown that model dependence of the factor minimizes under the necessary condition of the same maximum position and muon content of simulated showers. 
0704.03476	Suppression of growth by multiplicative white noise in a parametric  resonant system	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Masamichi Ishihara	 Abstract: The author studied the growth of the amplitude in a Mathieu-like equation with multiplicative white noise. The approximate value of the exponent at the extremum on parametric resonance regions was obtained theoretically by introducing the width of time interval, and the exponents were calculated numerically by solving the stochastic differential equations by a symplectic numerical method. The Mathieu-like equation contains a parameter $\alpha$ that is determined by the intensity of noise and the strength of the coupling between the variable and the noise. The value of $\alpha$ was restricted not to be negative without loss of generality. It was shown that the exponent decreases with $\alpha$, reaches a minimum and increases after that. It was also found that the exponent as a function of $\alpha$ has only one minimum at $\alpha \neq 0$ on parametric resonance regions of $\alpha = 0$. This minimum value is obtained theoretically and numerically. The existence of the minimum at $\alpha \neq 0$ indicates the suppression of the growth by multiplicative white noise. 
0704.03477	The metallicity distributions in high-latitudes with SDSS	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Ak, S. Bilir, S. Karaali, R. Buser, A. Cabrera-Lavers	 Abstract: We present metallicities and their variations with different parameters for 36 high-latitude fields covering Galactic longitudes 0<l<360. The metallicities for relatively short vertical distances (z<2.5 kpc) show systematic fluctuations with Galactic longitude, similar to those of the thick-disc scaleheight, which may be interpreted as indicating a common origin, viz., the flare effect of the disc. This suggestion is supported by the metallicity variations which we find as functions of radial distance. The metallicity variation at larger vertical distances (6.5<z<9.5 kpc) is small but monotonic. Three different vertical metallicity gradients could be detected: d[M/H]/dz=-0.22(+/-0.03), d[M/H]/dz=-0.38 (+/-0.06), and d[M/H]/dz=-0.08 (+/-0.07) dex/kpc for the intervals z<3, 3<z<5, and 5<z<10 kpc, respectively. Since our data cover the whole Galactic longitude interval, the resulting metallicity gradients can be interpreted as properties of the larger-scale Galaxy. The first gradient confirms the dissipational formation of the disc at short z-distances. The steeper gradient corresponds to the transition region between different population components of the Galaxy, and finally, the lowest value provides an adequate description of the inner-halo metallicity gradient. 
0704.03478	Isolated sub-100-attosecond pulse generation via controlling electron  dynamics	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:Pengfei Lan, Peixiang Lu, Wei Cao, Yuhua Li, Xinlin Wang	 Abstract: A new method to coherently control the electron dynamics is proposed using a few-cycle laser pulse in combination with a controlling field. It is shown that this method not only broadens the attosecond pulse bandwidth, but also reduces the chirp, then an isolated 80-as pulse is straightforwardly obtained and even shorter pulse is achievable by increasing the intensity of the controlling field. Such ultrashort pulses allow one to investigate ultrafast electronic processes which have never be achieved before. In addition, the few-cycle synthesized pulse is expected to manipulate a wide range of laser-atom interactions. 
0704.03479	Elliptic Flow and Jet Quenching of a Parton System after Relativistic  Heavy Ion Collision	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Ghi R. Shin	 Abstract: We obtain the initial phase space distribution after relativistic heavy ion collision by the CGC shattering method incorporating the uncertainty principle and solve the semi-classical Boltzmann equation which includes the gluon radiation processes. We present as a function of time the attenuation rate of high $p_T$ partons, which have transverse momenta over 6 $GeV/c$, in the medium which is formed after relativistic heavy ion collision. We calculate the elliptic flow as a function of an impact parameter, time and transverse momentum and also present the polar anisotropy, which gives the initial condition for color filamentation. 
0704.03480	Transient X-ray Emission from Normal Galactic Nuclei	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Y. L. Wong, Y. F. Huang, K. S. Cheng	 Abstract: X-ray transients appeared in optically non-active galactic nuclei have been observed in recent years. The most popular model explaining this kind of phenomena is the conventional tidal disruption model. In this model, when a star moves within the tidal radius of a black hole, part of the star materials will fall into the black hole through an accretion disk, which gives rise to the luminous flare. We propose that the X-ray emission may not necessarily come from radiation of the accretion disk alone. Instead, it may be related to a jet. As the jet travels in the interstellar medium, a shock is produced and synchrotron radiation is expected. We compared the model light curve and the synchrotron radiation spectrum with the observed data, and find that our model explains the observed light curve and late-time spectrum well. Our model predicts that these transient active galactic nuclei could be sources of the future gamma-ray satellites, e.g. GLAST and the emission region will be expanding with time. 
0704.03481	Z Boson Propagator Correction in Technicolor Theories with ETC Effects  Included	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Masafumi Kurachi, Robert Shrock, Koichi Yamawaki	 Abstract: We calculate the Z boson propagator correction, as described by the S parameter, in technicolor theories with extended technicolor interactions included. Our method is to solve the Bethe-Salpeter equation for the requisite current-current correlation functions. Our results suggest that the inclusion of extended technicolor interactions has a relatively small effect on S. 
0704.03482	On the MHD load and the MHD metage	Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)	Authors:Sagar Chakraborty, Partha Guha	 Abstract: In analogy with the load and the metage in hydrodynamics, we define magnetohydrodynamic load and magnetohydrodynamic metage in the case of magnetofluids. They can be used to write the magnetic field in MHD in Clebsch's form. We show how these two concepts can be utilised to derive the magnetic analogue of the Ertel's theorem and also, how in the presence of non-trivial topology of the magnetic field in the magnetofluid one may associate the linking number of the magnetic field lines with the invariant MHD loads. The paper illustrates that the symmetry translation of the MHD metage in the corresponding label space generates the conservation of cross helicity. 
0704.03483	Collective oscillations of a Bose-Fermi mixture: Effect of unequal mass  of Bose and Fermi particles	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Arup Banerjee	 Abstract: We investigate the effect of different mass of a Bose- and a Fermi-particle on the collective oscillations of the degenerate boson-fermion mixtures. In particular we consider the monopole and the quadrupole modes of the oscillations and study their characters and the frequencies by using variational-sum-rule approach. We find that for both the modes there exists a critical value of the ratio of boson-fermion mass below and above which the character and the frequency of the respective modes are significantly different. 
0704.03484	Cascading Quivers from Decaying D-branes	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Jarah Evslin, Chethan Krishnan, Stanislav Kuperstein	 Abstract: We use an argument analogous to that of Kachru, Pearson and Verlinde to argue that cascades in L^{a,b,c} quiver gauge theories always preserve the form of the quiver, and that all gauge groups drop at each step by the number M of fractional branes. In particular, we demonstrate that an NS5-brane that sweeps out the S^3 of the base of L^{a,b,c} destroys M D3-branes. 
0704.03485	A Simple Optical Analysis of Gravitational Lensing	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Xing-Hao Ye, Qiang Lin	 Abstract: We analyzed the influence of static gravitational field on the vacuum and proposed the concept of inhomogeneous vacuum. According to the corresponding Fermat's principle in the general relativity, we derived a graded refractive index of vacuum in a static gravitational field. We found that the light deflection in a gravitational field can be calculated correctly with the use of this refractive index and therefore the gravitational lensing can be treated conveniently with the optical method. For illustration, we simulated the imaging of gravitational lensing, figured out the time delay between the two images and calculated the lens mass in a conventional optical way. 
0704.03486	An iterative method to compute the sign function of a non-Hermitian  matrix and its application to the overlap Dirac operator at nonzero chemical  potential	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:J. Bloch, A. Frommer, B. Lang, T. Wettig	 Abstract: The overlap Dirac operator in lattice QCD requires the computation of the sign function of a matrix. While this matrix is usually Hermitian, it becomes non-Hermitian in the presence of a quark chemical potential. We show how the action of the sign function of a non-Hermitian matrix on an arbitrary vector can be computed efficiently on large lattices by an iterative method. A Krylov subspace approximation based on the Arnoldi algorithm is described for the evaluation of a generic matrix function. The efficiency of the method is spoiled when the matrix has eigenvalues close to a function discontinuity. This is cured by adding a small number of critical eigenvectors to the Krylov subspace, for which we propose two different deflation schemes. The ensuing modified Arnoldi method is then applied to the sign function, which has a discontinuity along the imaginary axis. The numerical results clearly show the improved efficiency of the method. Our modification is particularly effective when the action of the sign function of the same matrix has to be computed many times on different vectors, e.g., if the overlap Dirac operator is inverted using an iterative method. 
0704.03487	Quantum Hall Effect in a Graphene p-n Junction	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:J. R. Williams, L. DiCarlo, C. M. Marcus	 Abstract: We report on the fabrication and transport studies of a single-layer graphene p-n junction. Carrier type and density in two adjacent regions are individually controlled by electrostatic gating using a local top gate and a global back gate. A functionalized Al203 oxide that adheres to graphene and does not significantly affect its electronic properties is described. Measurements in the quantum Hall regime reveal new plateaus of two-terminal conductance across the junction at 1 and 3/2 times the quantum of conductance, e2/h, consistent with theory. 
0704.03488	Optimal Occulter Design for Finding Extrasolar Planets	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R.J. Vanderbei, N.J. Kasdin, E. Cady	 Abstract: One proposed method for finding terrestrial planets around nearby stars is to use two spacecraft--a telescope and a specially shaped occulter that is specifically designed to prevent all but a tiny fraction of the starlight from diffracting into the telescope. As the cost and observing cadence for such a mission will be driven largely by the separation between the two spacecraft, it is critically important to design an occulter that can meet the observing goals while flying as close to the telescope as possible. In this paper, we explore this tradeoff between separation and occulter diameter. More specifically, we present a method for designing the shape of the outer edge of an occulter that is as small as possible and gives a shadow that is deep enough and large enough for a 4m telescope to survey the habitable zones of many stars for Earth-like planets. In particular, we show that in order for a 4m telescope to detect in broadband visible light a planet 0.06 arcseconds from a star shining $10^{10}$ times brighter than the planet requires a specially-shaped occulter 50m in diameter positioned about $72,000$ km in front of the telescope. 
0704.03489	Dissipative dynamics of circuit-QED in the mesoscopic regime	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Valentin Bonzom (Phys-ENS), Hichem Bouzidi (Phys-ENS), Pascal Degiovanni (Phys-ENS, BU-PHYS)	 Abstract: We investigate the behavior of a circuit QED device when the resonator is initially populated with a mesoscopic coherent field. The strong coupling between the cavity and the qubit produces an entangled state involving mesoscopic quasi-pointer states with respect to cavity dissipation. The overlap of the associated field components results in collapse and revivals for the Rabi oscillation. Although qubit relaxation and dephasing do not preserve these states, a simple analytical description of the dissipative dynamics of the circuit QED device including cavity relaxation as well as qubit dissipation is obtained from the Monte-Carlo approach. Explicit predictions for the spontaneous and induced Rabi oscillation signals are derived and sucessfully compared with exact calculations. We show that these interesting effects could be observed with a 10 photon field in forthcoming circuit QED experiments. 
0704.03490	New scaling relations in cluster radio halos and the re-acceleration  model	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. Cassano, G. Brunetti, G. Setti, F. Govoni, K. Dolag	 Abstract: In this paper we derive new expected scaling relations for clusters with giant radio halos in the framework of the re-acceleration scenario in a simplified, but physically motivated, form, namely: radio power (P_R) vs size of the radio emitting region (R_H), and P_R vs total cluster mass (M_H) contained in the emitting region and cluster velocity dispersion (sigma_H) in this region. We search for these correlations by analyzing the most recent radio and X-ray data available in the literature for a well known sample of clusters with giant radio halos. In particular we find a good correlation between P_R and R_H and a very tight ``geometrical'' scaling between M_H and R_H. From these correlations P_R is also expected to scale with M_H and sigma_H and this is confirmed by our analysis. We show that all the observed trends can be well reconciled with expectations in the case of a slight variation of the mean magnetic field strength in the radio halo volume with M_H. A byproduct correlation between R_H and sigma_H is also found, and can be further tested by optical studies. In addition, we find that observationally R_H scales non-linearly with the virial radius of the host cluster, and this immediately means that the fraction of the cluster volume which is radio emitting increases with cluster mass and thus that the non-thermal component in clusters is not self-similar. 
0704.03491	SuprimeCam Observation of Sporadic Meteors during Perseids 2004	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M.Iye, M.Tanaka, M.Yanagisawa, N.Ebizuka, K.Ohnishi, C.Hirose, N.Asami, Y.Komiyama, H.Furusawa	 Abstract: We report the serendipitous findings of 13 faint meteors and 44 artificial space objects by Subaru SuprimeCam imaging observations during 11-16 August 2004. The meteors, at about 100km altitude, and artificial satellites/debris in orbit, at 500km altitude or higher, were clearly discriminated by their apparent defocused image sizes. CCD photometry of the 13 meteors, including 1 Perseid, 1 Aquarid, and 11 sporadic meteors, was performed. We defined a peak video-rate magnitude by comparing the integrated photon counts from the brightest portion of the track traversed within 33ms to those from a 0-mag star during the same time duration. This definition gives magnitudes in the range 4.0< V_{vr} <6.4 and 4.1< I_{vr}<5.9 for these 13 meteors. The corresponding magnitude for virtual naked-eye observers could be somewhat fainter especially for the V-band observation, in which the [OI] 5577 line lasting about 1 sec as an afterglow could contribute to the integrated flux of the present 5-10 min CCD exposures. Although the spatial resolution is insufficient to resolve the source size of anything smaller than about 1 m, we developed a new estimate of the collisionally excited column diameter of these meteors. A diameter as small as a few mm was derived from their collisionally excited photon rates, meteor speed, and the volume density of the oxygen atoms at the 100km altitude. The actual column diameter of the radiating zone, however, could be as large as few 100m because the excited atoms travel that distance before they emit forbidden lines in 0.7 sec of its average lifetime. Among the 44 artificial space objects, we confirmed that 17 were cataloged satellites/space debris. 
0704.03492	Holes within galaxies: the egg or the hen?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. Caimmi	 Abstract: Unsustained matter distributions unescapely collapse unless fragmentation and centrifugal or pressure support take place. Starting from the above evidence, supermassive compact objects at the centre of large-mass galaxies are conceived as the end-product of the gravitational collapse of local density maxima around which overdensities are located. At the beginning of evolution, local density maxima are idealized as homogeneous peaks, while the surrounding envelopes are described by a power-law density profile. The dependence of the density profile on a second parameter, chosen to be the ratio between peak and total mass, is analysed. Overdensity evolution is discussed in the context of quintessence cosmological models and further investigation is devoted to a special case with the aim to describe the central collapse. An empirical relation between hole and dark halo mass is translated into a dependence of the fractional hole mass on the overdensity mass. Computations are performed up to the end of central collapse, and density profiles of related configurations are determined together with additional parameters. The central collapse is completed in early times, no longer than a few hundredths of Gyr, which implies hole formation when proto-haloes, proto-bulges, and proto-disks are still expanding or contracting. No appreciable change in evolution is found with regard to different mean peak heights related to equal masses. On the other hand, it is recognized that homogeneous peaks collapse ``faster'' with respect to surroundings envelopes, in low-mass than in large-mass overdensities. In conclusion, it is inferred that gravitational collapse of homogeneous peaks within overdensities may be a viable mechanism for hole generation. 
0704.03493	Simulation of ASTROD I test mass charging due to solar energetic  particles	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Lei Liu, Gang Bao, Wei-Tou Ni, D N A Shaul	 Abstract: As ASTROD I travels through space, its test mass will accrue charge due to galactic cosmic-rays and solar energetic particles incident on the spacecraft. This test mass charge will result in Coulomb forces between the test mass and the surrounding electrodes. In earlier work using the GEANT4 toolkit, we predicted a net charging rate of nearly 9.0 +e/s from cosmic-ray protons between 0.1 and 1000 GeV at solar maximum, and rising to 26.5 +e/s at solar minimum. Here we use GEANT4 to simulate the charging process due to solar energetic particle events and to estimate the magnitude of acceleration noise due to this charging. The predicted charging rates range from 2840 to 64300 +e/s, at peak intensity, for the 4 largest SEP events in September and October 1989. For the 2 larger events, the acceleration disturbances due to charging exceeds the ASTROD I acceleration noise budget requirement. Continuous discharge should be considered for suppressing this charging noise. The acceleration noise during the 2 small events is well below the design target, although during these events, the net charging rate will be dominated by these solar fluxes. 
0704.03494	Cherednik algebras for algebraic curves	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Michael Finkelberg, Victor Ginzburg	 Abstract: For any smooth algebraic curve C, Pavel Etingof introduced a `global' Cherednik algebra as a natural deformation of the cross product of the algebra of differential operators on C^n and the symmetric group. We provide a construction of the global Cherednik algebra in terms of quantumn Hamiltonian reduction. We study a category of character D-modules on a representation scheme associated to C and define a Hamiltonian reduction functor from that category to category O for the global Cherednik algebra. In the special case where the curve C is the multiplicative group, the global Cherednik algebra reduces to the trigonometric Cherednik algebra of type A, and our character D-modules become holonomic D-modules on GL_n \times C^n. The corresponding perverse sheaves are reminiscent of (and include as special cases) Lusztig's character sheaves. 
0704.03495	Bs and Bc mesons in lattice QCD with exact chiral symmetry	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:TWQCD Collaboration: Ting-Wai Chiu, Tung-Han Hsieh	 Abstract: We determine the masses and decay constants of the pseudoscalar mesons Bs and Bc, and also the masses of the vector mesons Bs^* and Bc^*, in quenched lattice QCD with exact chiral symmetry. For 100 gauge configurations generated with single-plaquette action at beta = 7.2 on the 32^3 x 60 lattice, we compute point-to-point quark propagators for 33 quark masses in the range [0.01, 0.85], and measure the time-correlation functions of pseudoscalar and vector mesons. The inverse lattice spacing and the charm quark bare mass are determined using the mass and decay constant of eta_c(2980). The bare masses of s and b quarks are chosen such that the masses of the corresponding vector mesons are in good agreement with phi(1020), and Upsilon(9460) respectively. Our results are: m_{Bs} = 5385(27)(17) MeV, f_{Bs} = 253(8)(7) MeV, m_{Bc} = 6278(6)(4) MeV, f_{Bc} = 489(4)(3) MeV, m_{Bs^*} = 5424(28)(19) MeV, and m_{Bc^*} = 6315(6)(5) MeV. 
0704.03496	Polynomial algorithms for protein similarity search for restricted mRNA  structures	Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)	Authors:Frank Gurski	 Abstract: In this paper we consider the problem of computing an mRNA sequence of maximal similarity for a given mRNA of secondary structure constraints, introduced by Backofen et al. in [BNS02] denoted as the MRSO problem. The problem is known to be NP-complete for planar associated implied structure graphs of vertex degree at most 3. In [BFHV05] a first polynomial dynamic programming algorithms for MRSO on implied structure graphs with maximum vertex degree 3 of bounded cut-width is shown. We give a simple but more general polynomial dynamic programming solution for the MRSO problem for associated implied structure graphs of bounded clique-width. Our result implies that MRSO is polynomial for graphs of bounded tree-width, co-graphs, $P_4$-sparse graphs, and distance hereditary graphs. Further we conclude that the problem of comparing two solutions for MRSO is hard for the class of problems which can be solved in polynomial time with a number of parallel queries to an oracle in NP. 
0704.03497	Analysis of thermally stimulated luminescence and conductivity without  quasiequilibrium approximation	Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)	Authors:A. Opanowicz	 Abstract: Thermally stimulated luminescence (TSL) and conductivity (TSC) are considered using the classical insulator model that assumes one kind of the active trap, one kind of inactive deep trap, and one kind of the recombination center. Kinetic equations describing the model are solved numerically without and with the use of the quasiequilibrium (QE) approximation. The QE state parameter qI,, the relative recombination probability g, and a new parameter called quasi-stationary (QS) state parameter q*=qIg are used for the analysis of the TSL and TSC. The TSL and TSC curves and the temperature dependences of qI, q*, g, the recombination lifetime, and the occupancies of active traps and recombination centers are numerically calculated for five sets of kinetic parameters and different heating rates. These calculation results show that: (1) the upper limit of the heating rate for presence of the QS state appears at higher heating rate than that for the QE state when the retrapping process is present, and (2) the TSL (TSC) curves in the QS state have the properties similar to those for the TSL (TSC) curves in the QE state. Approximate formulas for calculation of the parameters qI and q* in the initial range of the TSL and TSC curves are derived and used in the heating-rate methods, proposed in this work, for determination of those parameters from the calculated TSL curves. 
0704.03498	Rare decay pi0 -> e+e-: theory confronts KTeV data	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Alexander E. Dorokhov, Mikhail A. Ivanov	 Abstract: Within the dispersive approach to the amplitude of the rare decay pi0 -> e+e- the nontrivial dynamics is contained only in the subtraction constant. We express this constant, in the leading order in (m_e/\Lambda)^2 perturbative series, in terms of the inverse moment of the pion transition form factor given in symmetric kinematics. By using the CELLO and CLEO data on the pion transition form factor given in asymmetric kinematics the lower bound on the decay branching ratio is found. The restrictions following from QCD allow us to make a quantitative prediction for the branching B(pi0 -> e+e-) =(6.2\pm 0.1)*10^{-8} which is 3\sigma below the recent KTeV measurement. We confirm our prediction by using the quark models and phenomenological approaches based on the vector meson dominance. The decays \eta -> l^+l^- are also discussed. 
0704.03499	Well displacing representations and orbit maps	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Thomas Delzant (IRMA), Olivier Guichard (LM-Orsay), François Labourie (LM-Orsay), Shahar Mozes	 Abstract: We discuss in this article a property of action of groups by isometries called "well displacing". An action is said to be well displacing, if the displacement function is equivalent to the the displacement function for the action on the Cayley graph. We relate this property with the fact that orbit maps are quasi-isometric embeddings. We first describe countrexamples that shows this two notions are unrelated in general. On the other hand we explain that for a certain class of groups -- in particular hyperbolic groups -- these two properties are equivalent. In the course of our discussion, we introduce an intrinsic property of the group -- that we called the U-property -- which says quantitatively how the norm an element is controlled by the translation length of finitely many related conjugacy classes. This property play a central role in our discussion. 
0704.03500	Une plate-forme dynamique pour l'évaluation des performances des bases  de données à objets	Databases (cs.DB)	Authors:Zhen He, Jérôme Darmont (ERIC)	 Abstract: In object-oriented or object-relational databases such as multimedia databases or most XML databases, access patterns are not static, i.e., applications do not always access the same objects in the same order repeatedly. However, this has been the way these databases and associated optimisation techniques such as clustering have been evaluated up to now. This paper opens up research regarding this issue by proposing a dynamic object evaluation framework (DOEF). DOEF accomplishes access pattern change by defining configurable styles of change. It is a preliminary prototype that has been designed to be open and fully extensible. Though originally designed for the object-oriented model, it can also be used within the object-relational model with few adaptations. Furthermore, new access pattern change models can be added too. To illustrate the capabilities of DOEF, we conducted two different sets of experiments. In the first set of experiments, we used DOEF to compare the performances of four state of the art dynamic clustering algorithms. The results show that DOEF is effective at determining the adaptability of each dynamic clustering algorithm to changes in access pattern. They also led us to conclude that dynamic clustering algorithms can cope with moderate levels of access pattern change, but that performance rapidly degrades to be worse than no clustering when vigorous styles of access pattern change are applied. In the second set of experiments, we used DOEF to compare the performance of two different object stores: Platypus and SHORE. The use of DOEF exposed the poor swapping performance of Platypus. 
0704.03501	Conception d'un banc d'essais décisionnel	Databases (cs.DB)	Authors:Jérôme Darmont (ERIC), Fadila Bentayeb (ERIC), Omar Boussaïd (ERIC)	 Abstract: We present in this paper a new benchmark for evaluating the performances of data warehouses. Benchmarking is useful either to system users for comparing the performances of different systems, or to system engineers for testing the effect of various design choices. While the TPC (Transaction Processing Performance Council) standard benchmarks address the first point, they are not tuneable enough to address the second one. Our Data Warehouse Engineering Benchmark (DWEB) allows to generate various ad-hoc synthetic data warehouses and workloads. DWEB is fully parameterized. However, two levels of parameterization keep it easy to tune. Since DWEB mainly meets engineering benchmarking needs, it is complimentary to the TPC standard benchmarks, and not a competitor. Finally, DWEB is implemented as a Java free software that can be interfaced with most existing relational database management systems. 
0704.03502	Construction of type ${\rm II_1}$ factors with prescribed countable  fundamental group	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Cyril Houdayer	 Abstract: In the context of Free Probability Theory, we study two different constructions that provide new examples of factors of type ${\rm II_1}$ with prescribed fundamental group. First we investigate state-preserving group actions on the almost periodic free Araki-Woods factors satisfying both a condition of mixing and a condition of free malleability in the sense of Popa. Typical examples are given by the free Bogoliubov shifts. Take an ICC $w$-rigid group $G$ such that $\mathcal{F}(L(G)) = \{1\}$ (e.g. $G = \Z^2 \rtimes \SL(2, \Z)$). For any countable subgroup $S \subset \R^*_+$, we show that there exists an action of $G$ on $L(\F_\infty)$ such that $L(\F_\infty) \rtimes G$ is a type ${\rm II_1}$ factor and its fundamental group is $S$. The second construction is based on a free product. Take $(B(H), \psi)$ any factor of type ${\rm I}$ endowed with a faithful normal state and denote by $\Gamma \subset \R^*_+$ the subgroup generated by the point spectrum of $\psi$. We show that the centralizer $(L(G) \ast B(H))^{\tau \ast \psi}$ is a type ${\rm II_1}$ factor and its fundamental group is $\Gamma$. Our proofs rely on Popa's deformation/rigidity strategy using his intertwining-by-bimodules technique. 
0704.03503	A consistent formalism for the Thomas-Ehrman Level Displacement	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:J.J. He, A.St.J. Murphy	 Abstract: Usage of the Thomas-Ehrman Level Displacement formalism has been examined. Mistakes and inconsistencies are found in several papers, being repeated in subsequent works. Here, we present a complete formalism with a consistent set of definitions. Full algorithms are made available, both as a {\tt FORTRAN} source file and as a user-friendly Visual Basic executable tool, available for download on the World Wide Web. 
0704.03504	Smooth Rényi Entropy of Ergodic Quantum Information Sources	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Berry Schoenmakers, Jilles Tjoelker, Pim Tuyls, Evgeny Verbitskiy	 Abstract: We prove that the average smooth Renyi entropy rate will approach the entropy rate of a stationary, ergodic information source, which is equal to the Shannon entropy rate for a classical information source and the von Neumann entropy rate for a quantum information source. 
0704.03505	Spin effects in single-electron transport through carbon nanotube  quantum dots	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Satoshi Moriyama, Tomoko Fuse, Tomohiro Yamaguchi, Koji Ishibashi	 Abstract: We investigate the total spin in an individual single-wall carbon nanotube quantum dot with various numbers of electrons in a shell by using the ratio of the saturation currents of the first steps of Coulomb staircases for positive and negative biases. The current ratio reflects the total-spin transition that is increased or decreased when the dot is connected to strongly asymmetric tunnel barriers. Our results indicate that total spin states with and without magnetic fields can be traced by this method. 
0704.03506	Counting statistics in multiple path geometries and the fluctuations of  the integrated current in a quantum stirring device	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Maya Chuchem, Doron Cohen	 Abstract: The amount $Q$ of particles that are transported via a path of motion is characterized by its expectation value $<Q>$ and by its variance $Var(Q)$. We analyze what happens if a particle has two optional paths available to get from one site to another site, and in particular what is $Var(Q)$ for the current which is induced in a quantum stirring device. It turns out that coherent splitting and the stirring effect are intimately related and cannot be understood within the framework of the prevailing probabilistic theory. 
0704.03507	The Clusters AgeS Experiment (CASE). I. V209 omega Cen - An Eclipsing  Post-Common Envelope Binary in the Globular Cluster omega Cen	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. Kaluzny, S.M. Rucinski, I.B. Thompson, W. Pych, W. Krzeminski	 Abstract: We use photometric and spectroscopic observations of the detached eclipsing binary V209 omega Cen to derive the masses, radii, and luminosities of the component stars. The system exhibits total eclipses and, based on the measured systemic velocity and the derived distance, is a member of the globular cluster omega Cen. We obtain 0.945 +/- 0.043 Msun, 0.983 +/- 0.015 Rsun and 6.68 +/- 0.88 Lsun for the cooler, but larger and more luminous primary component. The secondary component has 0.144 +/- 0.008 Msun, 0.425 +/- 0.008 Rsun and 2.26 +/- 0.28 Lsun. The effective temperatures are estimated at 9370 K for the primary and at 10866 K for the secondary. On the color-magnitude diagram of the cluster, the primary component occupies a position between the tip of the blue straggler region and the extended horizontal branch while the secondary component is located close to the red border of the area occupied by hot subdwarfs. However, its radius is too large and its effective temperature is too low for it to be an sdB star. We propose a scenario leading to the formation of a system with such unusual properties with the primary component ``re-born'' from a former white dwarf which accreted a new envelope through mass transfer from its companion. The secondary star has lost most of its envelope while starting its ascent onto the sub-giant branch. It failed to ignite helium in its core and is currently powered by a hydrogen burning shell. 
0704.03508	The Clusters AgeS Experiment (CASE). II. The Eclipsing Blue Straggler  OGLEGC-228 in the Globular Cluster 47 Tuc	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. Kaluzny, I.B. Thompson, S.M. Rucinski, W. Pych, G. Stachowski, W. Krzeminski, G.S. Burley	 Abstract: We use photometric and spectroscopic observations of the eclipsing binary OGLEGC-228 (V228) to derive the masses, radii, and luminosities of the component stars. Based on measured systemic velocity, proper motion and distance, the system is a blue straggler member of the globular cluster 47 Tuc. Our analysis shows that V228 is a semi-detached Algol. We obtain M=1.512 +/- 0.022 Msun, R=1.357 +/- 0.019 Rsun, L=7.02 +/- 0.050 Lsun for the hotter and more luminous primary component and M=0.200 +/- 0.007 Msun, R=1.238 +/- 0.013 Rsun, L=1.57 +/- 0.09 Lsun for the Roche lobe filling secondary. 
0704.03509	The descent statistic on involutions is not log-concave	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Marilena Barnabei, Flavio Bonetti, Matteo Silimbani	 Abstract: We establish a combinatorial connection between the sequence $(i_{n,k})$ counting the involutions on $n$ letters with $k$ descents and the sequence $(a_{n,k})$ enumerating the semistandard Young tableaux on $n$ cells with $k$ symbols. This allows us to show that the sequences $(i_{n,k})$ are not log-concave for some values of $n$, hence answering a conjecture due to F. Brenti. 
0704.03510	Coupling of phonons and spin waves in triangular antiferromagnet	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Jung Hoon Kim, Jung Hoon Han	 Abstract: We investigate the influence of the spin-phonon coupling in the triangular antiferromagnet where the coupling is of the exchange-striction type. The magnon dispersion is shown to be modified significantly at wave vector (2pi,0) and its symmetry-related points, exhibiting a roton-like minimum and an eventual instability in the dispersion. Various correlation functions such as equal-time phonon correlation, spin-spin correlation, and local magnetization are calculated in the presence of the coupling. 
0704.03511	Transverse LS-Category for Riemannian Foliations	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Steven Hurder, Dirk Toeben	 Abstract: We study the transverse Lusternik-Schnirelmann category of a Riemannian foliation on a compact manifold. We obtain a necessary and sufficient condition when the transverse LS category is finite. We also introduce a variation on the concept of transverse LS category, the essential transverse category, and show that this is finite for every Riemannian foliation and coincides with the transverse category if the latter is finite. Moreover we prove that the essential transverse category is a lower bound for the number of critical leaf closures of a basic differentiable function on M. 
0704.03512	Interplay between magnetic properties and thermoelectricity in misfit  and Na cobaltates	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:J. Bobroff, S. Hebert, G. Lang, P. Mendels, D. Pelloquin, A. Maignan	 Abstract: We present a comparative study of CoO2 layers in the Bi-misfit and NaxCoO2 cobaltates. Co NMR measures the intrinsic susceptibility of the Co layers and is not affected by spurious contributions. At low dopings where room-temperature thermopower (TEP) is large, Curie-Weiss susceptibilities are observed in both materials. But NMR and muSR experiments find neither charge nor spin order down to low temperatures in Bi-misfit, in contrast to the case of NaxCoO2. This demonstrates that metallicity, charge and magnetic orders are specific of the Na layers in NaxCoO2 whereas strong correlations are generic of the cobaltates physics and could explain the large TEP. 
0704.03513	The Equivariant LS-Category of Polar Actions	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Steven Hurder, Dirk Toeben	 Abstract: We will provide a lower bound for the equivariant Lusternik-Schnirelmann category of an arbitrary proper action in terms of the stratification by orbit types, and an upper bound for proper polar actions in terms of the equivariant Lusternik-Schnirelmann category of its generalized Weyl group. As an application we reprove a theorem of Singhof that determines the classical Lusternik-Schnirelmann category for U(n) and SU(n). 
0704.03514	Scintillator Tile Hadron Calorimeter with Novel SiPM Readout	Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)	Authors:M.Danilov (representing the CALICE collaboration)	 Abstract: The CALICE collaboration is presently constructing a test hadron calorimeter (HCAL) with 7620 scintillator tiles read out by novel photo-detectors - Silicon Photomultipliers (SiPMs). This prototype is the first device which uses SiPMs on a large scale. We present the design of the HCAL and report on measured properties of more than 10 thousand SiPMs. We discuss the SiPM efficiency, gain, cross-talk, and noise rate dependence on bias voltage and temperature, including the spread in these parameters. We analyze the reasons for SiPM rejection and present the results of the long term stability studies. The first measurements of the SiPM radiation hardness are presented. We compare properties of SiPM with the properties of similar devices, MRS APD and MPPC. A possibility to make the tiles thinner and to read them out without WLS fibers has been studied. 
0704.03515	Comparing Robustness of Pairwise and Multiclass Neural-Network Systems  for Face Recognition	Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)	Authors:J. Uglov, V. Schetinin, C. Maple	 Abstract: Noise, corruptions and variations in face images can seriously hurt the performance of face recognition systems. To make such systems robust, multiclass neuralnetwork classifiers capable of learning from noisy data have been suggested. However on large face data sets such systems cannot provide the robustness at a high level. In this paper we explore a pairwise neural-network system as an alternative approach to improving the robustness of face recognition. In our experiments this approach is shown to outperform the multiclass neural-network system in terms of the predictive accuracy on the face images corrupted by noise. 
0704.03516	Cancelling Quadratic Divergences Without Supersymmetry	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:M.T.M. van Kessel	 Abstract: We construct a theory which has the same particle content as softly broken minimal supersymmetric QED (MSQED) and is free of quadratic divergences up to two loops. Also this theory is completely gauge invariant. It appears that MSQED is not at all the only theory without these quadratic divergences. This proves that there exist non supersymmetric theories in which there are no quadratic divergences up to two loops. 
0704.03517	Gamma-ray production in young open clusters: Berk 87, Cyg OB2 and  Westerlund 2	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:W. Bednarek	 Abstract: Young open clusters are likely sites of cosmic ray acceleration as indicated by recent detections of the TeV gamma-ray sources in the directions of two open clusters (Cyg OB2 and Westerlund 2) and their directional proximity to some unidentified EGRET sources. In fact, up to now a few different scenarios for acceleration of particles inside open clusters have been considered, i.e. shocks in massive star winds, pulsars and their nebulae, supernova shocks, massive compact binaries. Here we consider in detail the radiation processes due to both electrons and hadrons accelerated inside the open cluster. As a specific scenario, we apply the acceleration process at the shocks arising in the winds of WR type stars. Particles diffuse through the medium of the open cluster during the activity time of the acceleration scenario defined by the age of the WR star. They interact with the matter and radiation, at first inside the open cluster and, later in the dense surrounding clouds. We calculate the broad band spectrum in different processes for three example open clusters (Berk 87, Cyg OB2, Westerlund 2) for which the best observational constraints on the spectra are at present available. It is assumed that the high energy phenomena, observed from the X-ray up to the GeV-TeV gamma-ray energies, are related to each other. We conclude that the most likely description of the radiation processes in these objects is achieved in the hybrid (leptonic-hadronic) model in which leptons are responsible for the observed X-ray and GeV gamma-ray emission and hadrons are responsible for the TeV gamma-ray emission, which is produced directly inside and in dense clouds surrounding the open cluster. 
0704.03518	SUSY-GUTs, SUSY-Seesaw and the Neutralino Dark Matter	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:L. Calibbi, Y. Mambrini, S. K. Vempati	 Abstract: We will consider a SUSY-SU(5) with one right-handed neutrino with a large top like Yukawa coupling. Assuming universal soft masses at high scale we compute the low-energy spectrum and subsequently the neutralino LSP relic density taking also into consideration SU(5) as well as the see-saw running effects above the gauge coupling unification scale. We found that there exists no viable region in parameter space for $\tan\beta \ler ~35$. The $\tilde{\tau}$ coannihilation process starts becoming efficient for $\tan\beta \ger 35-40$. However, this process is significantly constrained by the limited range in which the stau is lighter than the neutralino. In fact, for a given $\tan\beta$ we find that there exists an upper bound on the lightest neutralino mass ($M_{\chi_1^0}$) in this region. The A-pole funnel region appears at very large $\tan\beta \simeq 45-50$, while the focus-point region does not make an appearance till large ($m_0,M_{1/2}$), namely a few TeV. Large $A_0$ terms at high scale can lead to extended regions consistent with WMAP constraints and remove the upper bounds in the stau coannihilation regions. 
0704.03519	Chung's law for homogeneous Brownian functionals	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Aimé Lachal (ICJ, DP), Thomas Simon (ICJ, DP)	 Abstract: Consider the first exit time $T_{a,b}$ from a finite interval $[-a,b]$ for an homogeneous fluctuating functional $X$ of a linear Brownian motion. We show the existence of a finite positive constant $\k$ such that $$\lim_{t\to\infty}t^{-1}\log \p[ T_{ab} > t] = -\k.$$ Following Chung's original approach, we deduce a "liminf" law of the iterated logarithm for the two-sided supremum of $X$. This extends and gives a new point of view on a result of Khoshnevisan and Shi. 
0704.03520	Vers l'auto-administration des entrepôts de données	Databases (cs.DB)	Authors:Kamel Aouiche (ERIC), Jérôme Darmont (ERIC)	 Abstract: With the wide development of databases in general and data warehouses in particular, it is important to reduce the tasks that a database administrator must perform manually. The idea of using data mining techniques to extract useful knowledge for administration from the data themselves has existed for some years. However, little research has been achieved. The aim of this study is to search for a way of extracting useful knowledge from stored data to automatically apply performance optimization techniques, and more particularly indexing techniques. We have designed a tool that extracts frequent itemsets from a given workload to compute an index configuration that helps optimizing data access time. The experiments we performed showed that the index configurations generated by our tool allowed performance gains of 15% to 25% on a test database and a test data warehouse. 
0704.03521	Duality of momentum-energy and space-time on an almost complex manifold	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:You-gang Feng	 Abstract: We proved that under quantum mechanics a momentum-energy and a space-time are dual vector spaces on an almost complex manifold in position representation, and the minimal uncertainty relations are equivalent to the inner-product relations of their bases. In a microscopic sense, there exist locally a momentum-energy conservation and a space-time conservation. The minimal uncertainty relations refer to a local equilibrium state for a stable system, and the relations will be invariable in the special relativity. A supposition about something having dark property is proposed, which relates to a breakdown of time symmetry. 
0704.03522	Superradiance and multiple scattering of photons in atomic gases	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:A. Gero, E. Akkermans	 Abstract: We study the influence of cooperative effects such as superradiance and subradiance, on the scattering properties of dilute atomic gases. We show that cooperative effects lead to an effective potential between pairs of atoms that decays like $1/r$. In the case of superradiance, this potential is attractive for close enough atoms and can be interpreted as a coherent mesoscopic effect. We consider a model of multiple scattering of a photon among superradiant pairs and calculate the elastic mean free path and the group velocity. We study first the case of a scalar wave which allows to obtain and to understand basic features of cooperative effects and multiple scattering. We then turn to the general problem of a vector wave. In both cases, we obtain qualitatively similar results and derive, for the case of a scalar wave, analytic expressions of the elastic mean free path and of the group velocity for an arbitrary (near resonance) detuning. 
0704.03523	Immersions of spheres and algebraically constructible functions	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Iwona Karolkiewicz, Aleksandra Nowel, Zbigniew Szafraniec	 Abstract: Let L be an algebraic set and let g : R^(n+1) \times L --> R^(2n) (n is even) be a polynomial mapping such that for each l in L there is r(l)>0 such that the mapping g_l = g(.,l) restricted to the sphere S^n(r) is an immersion for every 0<r<(l), so that the intersection number I(g_l|S^n(r)) is defined. Then the function which maps l in L to I(g_l|S^n(r)) is algebraically constructible. 
0704.03524	Parallel Distribution of Asynchronous Optical Signals	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R J White, H J Rose, S M Bradbury, P Marshall	 Abstract: An eleven channel digital asynchronous transceiver (DAT) employing parallel optical link technology has been developed for trigger signal distribution across the Very Energetic Radiation Imaging Telescope Array System (VERITAS). Combinatorial logic functions are implemented in Xilinx Spartan 3 FPGAs, providing a versatile solution adaptable for use in future atmospheric Cerenkov detectors and other high-energy astroparticle experiments. The device is dead-time free and introduces a minimal skew of 1.6 ns between channels. The jitter on each DAT channel is less than 0.8 ns 95% of the time, allowing communication between telescopes and a central trigger system separated by hundreds of meters, without limiting array performance. 
0704.03525	Quantum chaos on discrete graphs	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Uzy Smilansky	 Abstract: Adapting a method developed for the study of quantum chaos on {\it quantum (metric)} graphs \cite {KS}, spectral $\zeta$ functions and trace formulae for {\it discrete} Laplacians on graphs are derived. This is achieved by expressing the spectral secular equation in terms of the periodic orbits of the graph, and obtaining functions which belongs to the class of $\zeta$ functions proposed originally by Ihara \cite {Ihara}, and expanded by subsequent authors \cite {Stark,Sunada}. Finally, a model of "classical dynamics" on the discrete graph is proposed. It is analogous to the corresponding classical dynamics derived for quantum graphs \cite {KS}. 
0704.03526	MgB2 single crystals substituted with Li and with Li-C: Structural and  superconducting properties	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:J. Karpinski, N. Zhigadlo, S. Katrych, B. Batlogg, M. Tortello, K. Rogacki, R. Puzniak	 Abstract: The effect of Li substitution for Mg and of Li-C co-substitution on the superconducting properties and crystal structure of MgB2 single crystals has been investigated. It has been found that hole doping with Li decreases the superconducting transition temperature Tc, but at a slower rate than electron doping with C or Al. Tc of MgB2 crystals with simultaneously substituted Li for Mg and C for B decreases more than in the case where C is substituted alone. This means that holes introduced by Li cannot counterbalance the effect of decrease of Tc caused by introduction of electrons coming from C. The possible reason of it can be that holes coming from Li occupy the pi band while electrons coming from C fill the sigma band. The temperature dependences of the upper critical field Hc2 for Al and Li substituted crystals with the same Tc show a similar dHc2/dT slope at Tc and a similar Hc2(T) behavior, despite of much different substitution level. This indicates that the mechanism controlling Hc2 and Tc is similar in both hole and electron doped crystals. Electrical transport measurements show an increase of resistivity both in Li substituted crystals and in Li and C co-substituted crystals. This indicates enhanced scattering due to defects introduced by substitutions including distortion of the lattice. The observed behavior can be explained as a result of two effects, influencing both Tc and Hc2. The first one is doping related to the changes in the carrier concentration, which may lead to the decrease or to the increase of Tc. The second one is related to the introduction of new scattering centers leading to the modification of the interband and/or intraband scattering and therefore, to changes in the superconducting gaps and to the reduction of Tc. 
0704.03527	Hypercontractivity, Nash inequalities, and subordination for classes of  nonlinear semigroups	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Fabio Cipriani, Gabriele Grillo	 Abstract: A suitable notion of hypercontractivity for a nonlinear semigroup $\{T_t\}$ is shown to imply Gagliardo--Nirenberg inequalities for its generator $H$, provided a subhomogeneity property holds for the energy functional $(u,Hu)$. We use this fact to prove that, for semigroups generated by operators of $p$--Laplacian--type, hypercontractivity implies ultracontractivity. We then introduce the notion of subordinated nonlinear semigroups when the corresponding Bernstein function is $f(x)=x^\alpha$, and write down an explicit formula for the associated generator. It is shown that, in certain cases, hypercontractivity still holds for the subordinated semigroup and, hence, that Nash--type inequalities holds as well for the subordinated generator. 
0704.03528	Spectroscopic Analyses of Massive Blue Stars (Galactic or Extragalactic)	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Herrero	 Abstract: We review recent advances in our understanding of massive stars through the analysis of their spectra. Improvements in model atmospheres and analysis methods are briefly discussed. Results obtained for stars in the Local Group are compared and the present status of different open questions, like the temperature scale of OB stars, the Wind Momentum-Luminosity Relation or the stellar rotation, is outlined. 
0704.03529	Remarks related to the paper of Rafael de la Madrid: "On the  inconsistency of the Bohm-Gadella theory with quantum mechanics", JPhysA 39,  No. 29, 9255-9268 (2006)	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Hellmut Baumgaertel	 Abstract: The paper contains critical comments to the paper mentioned in the title from the mathematical point of view 
0704.03530	Invariant forms, associated bundles and Calabi-Yau metrics	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Diego Conti	 Abstract: We develop a method, initially due to Salamon, to compute the space of ``invariant'' forms on an associated bundle X=P\times_G V, with a suitable notion of invariance. We determine sufficient conditions for this space to be d-closed. We apply our method to the construction of Calabi-Yau metrics on TCP^1 and TCP^2. 
0704.03531	Experimental Review on Pentaquarks	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:M. Danilov, R. Mizuk	 Abstract: The experimental evidence for pentaquarks is reviewed and compared with the experiments that do not see any sign of pentaquarks. This paper is based on a lecture given at the 33rd ITEP Winter School of Physics in the beginning of 2005. Results obtained since then are summarized in the epilogue. 
0704.03532	Some Phenomenologies of Unparticle Physics	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Mingxing Luo, Guohuai Zhu	 Abstract: Fermionic unparticles are introduced and their basic properties are discussed. Some phenomenologies related are exploited, such as their effects on charged Higgs boson decays and anomalous magnetic moments of leptons. Also, it has been found that measurements of $B^0-\bar B^0$ mixing could yield interesting constraints on couplings between unparticle operators and standard model fields. 
0704.03533	Very High Energy $γ$-ray and Near Infrared observations of  1ES2344+514 during 2004-05	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. V. Godambe (a), R. C. Rannot (a), K. S. Baliyan (b), A. K. Tickoo (a), S. Thoudam (a), V. K. Dhar (a), P. Chandra (a), K. K. Yadav (a), K. Venugopal (a), N. Bhatt (a), S. Bhattacharyya (a), K. Chanchalani (a), S.Ganesh (a), H. C. Goyal (a), U. C. Joshi (b), R. K. Kaul (a), M. Kothari (a), S. Kotwal (a), M.K. Koul (a), R. Koul (a), S. Sahaynathan (a), C. Shah (b), M. Sharma (a) ((a) Astrophysical Sciences Division, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Trombay, Mumbai, India (b) Physical Research Laboratory, Ahmedabad, India)	 Abstract: We have observed the BL Lac object 1ES2344+514 (z = 0.044) in Very High Energy (VHE) gamma-ray and near-infrared wavelength bands with TACTIC and MIRO telescopes respectively. The observations were made from 18th October to 9th December 2004 and 27th October 2005 to 1st January 2006. Detailed analysis of the TACTIC data indicates absence of a statistically significant gamma-ray signal both in overall data and on a nightly basis from the source direction. We estimate an upper limit of I($\geq$1.5 TeV)$\leq 3.84 \times 10^{-12}$ photons cm$^{-2}$ s$^{-1}$ at a 3$\sigma$ confidence level on the integrated $\gamma$-ray flux. In addition, we have also compared TACTIC TeV light curves with those of the RXTE ASM (2-12keV) for the contemporary period and find that there are no statistically significant increases in the signal strengths from the source in both these energy regions. During 2004 IR observations, 1ES2344+514 shows low level (~0.06 magnitude) day-to-day variation in both, J & H bands. However, during 2005 observation epoch, the source brightens up by about 0.41 magnitude from its October 2005 level J magnitude= 12.64 to J = 12.23 on December 6, 2005. It then fades by about 0.2 magnitude during 6 to 10 December, 2005. The variation is seen in both, J & H, bands simultaneously. The light travel time arguments suggest that the emission region size is of the order of $10^{17}$ cms. 
0704.03534	On Correlated Random Walks and 21-cm Fluctuations During Cosmic  Reionization	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Rennan Barkana (Tel Aviv University)	 Abstract: Analytical approaches to galaxy formation and reionization are based on the mathematical problem of random walks with barriers. The statistics of a single random walk can be used to calculate one-point distributions ranging from the mass function of virialized halos to the distribution of ionized bubble sizes during reionization. However, an analytical calculation of two-point correlation functions or of spatially-dependent feedback processes requires the joint statistics of random walks at two different points. An accurate analytical expression for the statistics of two correlated random walks has been previously found only for the case of a constant barrier height. However, calculating bubble sizes or accurate statistics for halo formation involves more general barriers that can often be approximated as linear barriers. We generalize the two-point solution with constant barriers to linear barriers, and apply it as an illustration to calculate the correlation function of cosmological 21-cm fluctuations during reionization. 
0704.03535	Quantum Simulations in Ion Traps -- Towards Simulating the Early  Expanding Universe	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Lutz Petersen	 Abstract: This thesis provides an overview of an approach to quantum simulations using magnesium-25 ions stored in a linear Paul trap as the carriers of quantum information. Their quantum state is manipulated and read out using ultraviolet laser beams. Several important steps towards realising the first experiments have been undertaken, the most striking of which is cooling the ions to their motional ground state. We describe a first experiment simulating cosmological particle creation in the Early Universe and discuss the expected results. 
0704.03536	$δ$-sequences and Evaluation Codes defined by Plane Valuations at  Infinity	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:C. Galindo, F.Monserrat	 Abstract: We introduce the concept of $\delta$-sequence. A $\delta$-sequence $\Delta$ generates a well-ordered semigroup $S$ in $\mathbb{Z}^2$ or $\mathbb{R}$. We show how to construct (and compute parameters) for the dual code of any evaluation code associated with a weight function defined by $\Delta$ from the polynomial ring in two indeterminates to a semigroup $S$ as above. We prove that this is a simple procedure which can be understood by considering a particular class of valuations of function fields of surfaces, called plane valuations at infinity. We also give algorithms to construct an unlimited number of $\delta$-sequences of the different existing types, and so this paper provides the tools to know and use a new large set of codes. 
0704.03537	Dijet correlations at RHIC, leading-order $k_t$-factorization approach  versus next-to-leading order collinear approach	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Antoni Szczurek, Anna Rybarska, Gabriela Slipek	 Abstract: We compare results of $k_t$-factorization approach and next-to-leading order collinear-factorization approach for dijet correlations in proton-proton collisions at RHIC energies. We discuss correlations in azimuthal angle as well as correlations in two-dimensional space of transverse momenta of two jets. Some $k_t$-factorization subprocesses are included for the first time in the literature. Different unintegrated gluon/parton distributions are used in the $k_t$-factorization approach. The results depend on UGDF/UPDF used. For collinear NLO case the situation depends significantly on whether we consider correlations of any two jets or correlations of leading jets only. In the first case the $2 \to 2$ contributions associated with soft radiations summed up in the $k_t$-factorization approach dominate at $\phi \sim \pi$ and at equal moduli of jet transverse momenta. The collinear NLO $2 \to 3$ contributions dominate over $k_t$-factorization cross section at small relative azimuthal angles as well as for asymmetric transverse momentum configurations. In the second case the NLO contributions vanish at small relative azimuthal angles and/or large jet transverse-momentum disbalance due to simple kinematical constraints. There are no such limitations for the $k_t$-factorization approach. All this makes the two approaches rather complementary. The role of several cuts is discussed and quantified. 
0704.03538	High statistics measurement of the cross sections of gamma gamma -> pi^+  pi^- production	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:T. Mori, et al, for the Belle Collaboration	 Abstract: We report on a high statistics measurement of the total and differential cross sections of the process gamma gamma -> pi^+ pi^- in the pi^+ pi^- invariant mass range 0.8 GeV/c^2 < W < 1.5 GeV/c^2 with 85.9 fb^{-1} of data collected at sqrt{s}=10.58 GeV and 10.52 GeV with the Belle detector. A clear signal of the f_0(980) resonance is observed in addition to the f_2(1270) resonance. An improved 90% confidence level upper limit Br.(eta'(958) -> pi^+ pi^-) < 2.9 x 10^{-3} is obtained for P- and CP-violating decay of the eta'(958) meson using the most conservative assumption about the interference with the background. 
0704.03539	Non-LTE Analysis of Lyman-Line Observations of a Filament with SUMER	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. Schwartz (1), B. Schmieder (2), P. Heinzel (1) ((1) Astronomical Institute AS, Ondrejov, Czech Republic, (2) Observatoire de Paris, Section Meudon, LESIA, Meudon, France)	 Abstract: We present non-LTE diagnostics of the filament observed by SOHO/SUMER on May 27, 2005 in the whole Lyman series. The filament was situated close to the disk center. The Ly_alpha observations were carried out with normal voltage of detector A. The slit was placed at the central part of the detector -- outside the Ly_alpha attenuator. Therefore, the observed profiles of this line could be calibrated reliably. 
0704.03540	Inflationary Perturbations: the Cosmological Schwinger Effect	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Jerome Martin	 Abstract: This pedagogical review aims at presenting the fundamental aspects of the theory of inflationary cosmological perturbations of quantum-mechanical origin. The analogy with the well-known Schwinger effect is discussed in detail and a systematic comparison of the two physical phenomena is carried out. In particular, it is demonstrated that the two underlying formalisms differ only up to an irrelevant canonical transformation. Hence, the basic physical mechanisms at play are similar in both cases and can be reduced to the quantization of a parametric oscillator leading to particle creation due to the interaction with a classical source: pair production in vacuum is therefore equivalent to the appearance of a growing mode for the cosmological fluctuations. The only difference lies in the nature of the source: an electric field in the case of the Schwinger effect and the gravitational field in the case of inflationary perturbations. Although, in the laboratory, it is notoriously difficult to produce an electric field such that pairs extracted from the vacuum can be detected, the gravitational field in the early universe can be strong enough to lead to observable effects that ultimately reveal themselves as temperature fluctuations in the Cosmic Microwave Background. Finally, the question of how quantum cosmological perturbations can be considered as classical is discussed at the end of the article. 
0704.03541	Change in the room temperature magnetic property of ZnO upon Mn doping	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:S. Banerjee, K. Rajendran, N. Gayathri, M. Sardar, S. Senthilkumar, V. Sengodan	 Abstract: We present in this paper the changes in the room temperature magnetic property of ZnO on Mn doping prepared using solvo-thermal process. The zero field cooled (ZFC) and field cooled (FC) magnetisation of undoped ZnO showed bifurcation and magnetic hysteresis at room temperature. Upon Mn doping the magnetic hysteresis at room temperature and the bifurcation in ZFC-FC magnetization vanishes. The results seem to indicate that undoped ZnO is ferromagnetic while on the other hand the Mn doped ZnO is not a ferromagnetic system. We observe that on addition of Mn atoms the system shows antiferromagnetism with very giant magnetic moments. 
0704.03542	Polynomial solutions of qKZ equation and ground state of XXZ spin chain  at Delta = -1/2	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:A. V. Razumov, Yu. G. Stroganov, P. Zinn-Justin	 Abstract: Integral formulae for polynomial solutions of the quantum Knizhnik-Zamolodchikov equations associated with the R-matrix of the six-vertex model are considered. It is proved that when the deformation parameter q is equal to e^{+- 2 pi i/3} and the number of vertical lines of the lattice is odd, the solution under consideration is an eigenvector of the inhomogeneous transfer matrix of the six-vertex model. In the homogeneous limit it is a ground state eigenvector of the antiferromagnetic XXZ spin chain with the anisotropy parameter Delta equal to -1/2 and odd number of sites. The obtained integral representations for the components of this eigenvector allow to prove some conjectures on its properties formulated earlier. A new statement relating the ground state components of XXZ spin chains and Temperley-Lieb loop models is formulated and proved. 
0704.03543	Results on Dark Matter and beta beta decay modes by DAMA at Gran Sasso	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. Bernabei (Univ. and INFN Roma Tor Vergata)	 Abstract: DAMA is an observatory for rare processes and it is operative deep underground at the Gran Sasso National Laboratory of the I.N.F.N. (LNGS). Here some arguments will be presented on the investigation on dark matter particles by annual modulation signature and on some of the realized double beta decay searches. 
0704.03544	Holographic flavour in the N=1 Polchinski-Strassler background	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Christoph Sieg	 Abstract: To endow the N=1* SYM theory with quarks, we embed D7-brane probes into its gravity dual, known as the Polchinski-Strassler background. The non-vanishing 3-form flux G_3 in the background is dual to mass terms for the three adjoint chiral superfields, deforming the N=4 SYM theory to the N=1* SYM theory. We keep its three mass parameters independent. This generalizes our analysis in hep-th/0610276 for the N=2* SYM theory. We work at second order in the mass perturbation, i.e. G_3 and its backreaction on the background are considered perturbatively up to this order. We find analytic solutions for the embeddings which in general depend also on angular variables. We discuss the properties of the solutions and give error estimates on our approximation. By applying the method of holographic renormalization, we show that in all cases the embeddings are at least consistent with supersymmetry. 
0704.03545	Lower Metal Enrichment of Virialized Gas in Minihalos	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Renyue Cen, Mario A. Riquelme (Princeton University Observatory)	 Abstract: We differentiate between the metal enrichment of the gas in virialized minihalos and that of the intergalactic medium at high redshift, pertinent to cosmological reionization, with the initial expectation that gas in the high density regions within formed dark matter halos may be more robust thus resistant to mixing with lower density intergalactic medium. Using detailed hydrodynamic simulations of gas clouds in minihalos subject to destructive processes associated with the encompassing intergalactic shocks carrying metal-enriched gas, we find, as an example, that, for realistic shocks of velocities of 10-100km/s, more than (90%,65%) of the high density gas with rho>500 rhob inside a minihalo virialized at z=10 of mass (10^7,10^6)Msun remains at a metallicity lower than 3% of that of the intergalactic medium by redshift z=6. It may be expected that the high density gas in minihalos becomes fuel for subsequent star formation, when they are incorporated into larger halos where efficient atomic cooling can induce gas condensation hence star formation. Since minihalos virialize at high redshift when the universe is not expected to have been significantly reionized, the implication is that gas in virialized minihalos may provide an abundant reservoir of primordial gas to possibly allow for the formation of Population-III metal-free stars to extend to much lower redshift than otherwise expected based on the enrichment of intergalactic medium. 
0704.03546	Scaling properties of pyrex and silicon surfaces blasted with sharp  particles	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Z. Moktadir, H. Wensink, M. Kraft	 Abstract: The blasting of brittle materials with sharp particles is an important fabrication technology in many industrial processes. In particular, for micro-systems, it allows the production of devices with feature sizes down to few tens of microns. An important parameter of this process is the surface roughness of post-blasted surfaces. In this work the scaling properties of Pyrex glass and silicon surfaces after bombardment with alumina particles is investigated. The targets were bombarded at normal incidence using alumina particles with two different average sizes, $29\mu m$ and $9\mu m$, respectively. This investigation indicates that the resulting surfaces have multifractal properties. Applying multifractal detrended fluctuation analysis (MFDFA) allowed us to determine the singularity spectrum of the surfaces. This spectrum did not depend on the target material or on the size of the particles. Several parameters quantifying relevant quantities were determined. We argue that for scales below $5 \mu m$, fracture processes are dominant while at large scales long range correlations are responsible for the multifractal behaviour. 
0704.03547	Noncommutativity from spectral flow	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Thomas Heinzl, Anton Ilderton	 Abstract: We investigate the transition from second to first order systems. This transforms configuration space into phase space and hence introduces noncommutativity in the former. Quantum mechanically, the transition may be described in terms of spectral flow. Gaps in the energy or mass spectrum may become large which effectively truncates the available state space. Using both operator and path integral languages we explicitly discuss examples in quantum mechanics, (light-front) quantum field theory and string theory. 
0704.03548	Structural anomalies at the magnetic transition in centrosymmetric  BiMnO$_3$	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:E. Montanari, G. Calestani, L. Righi, E. Gilioli, F. Bolzoni, K.S. Knight, P.G. Radaelli	 Abstract: The structural properties of BiMn$O_3$ were determined from neutron powder diffraction data as a function of temperature and magnetic field. The structure at all temperatures was found to be centrosymmetric with space group $C2/c$, which is incompatible with ferroelectricity. At T$_C\simeq 100 K$, we observed the onset of a large magnetoelastic strain, proportional to the square of the magnetization. We interpret this structural rearrangement, together with the previously observed magnetodielectric anomalies, as due to the need to optimize the partially frustrated magnetic interactions. 
0704.03549	Semiclassical initial value calculations of collinear helium atom	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Celal Harabati, Kenneth G. Kay	 Abstract: Semiclassical calculations using the Herman-Kluk initial value treatment are performed to determine energy eigenvalues of bound and resonance states of the collinear helium atom. Both the $eZe$ configuration (where the classical motion is fully chaotic) and the $Zee$ configuration (where the classical dynamics is nearly integrable) are treated. The classical motion is regularized to remove singularities that occur when the electrons collide with the nucleus. Very good agreement is obtained with quantum energies for bound and resonance states calculated by the complex rotation method. 
0704.03550	Final spin of a coalescing black-hole binary: an Effective-One-Body  approach	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Thibault Damour, Alessandro Nagar	 Abstract: We update the analytical estimate of the final spin of a coalescing black-hole binary derived within the Effective-One-Body (EOB) approach. We consider unequal-mass non-spinning black-hole binaries. It is found that a more complete account of relevant physical effects (higher post-Newtonian accuracy, ringdown losses) allows the {\it analytical} EOB estimate to `converge towards' the recently obtained {\it numerical} results within 2%. This agreement illustrates the ability of the EOB approach to capture the essential physics of coalescing black-hole binaries. Our analytical approach allows one to estimate the final spin of the black hole formed by coalescing binaries in a mass range ($\nu=m_1m_2/(m_1+m_2)^2 < 0.16 $) which is not presently covered by numerical simulations. 
0704.03551	Modelling diffusional transport in the interphase cell nucleus	Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)	Authors:Annika Wedemeier, Holger Merlitz, Chen-Xu Wu, Jörg Langowski	 Abstract: In this paper a lattice model for diffusional transport of particles in the interphase cell nucleus is proposed. Dense networks of chromatin fibers are created by three different methods: randomly distributed, non-interconnected obstacles, a random walk chain model, and a self avoiding random walk chain model with persistence length. By comparing a discrete and a continuous version of the random walk chain model, we demonstrate that lattice discretization does not alter particle diffusion. The influence of the 3D geometry of the fiber network on the particle diffusion is investigated in detail, while varying occupation volume, chain length, persistence length and walker size. It is shown that adjacency of the monomers, the excluded volume effect incorporated in the self avoiding random walk model, and, to a lesser extent, the persistence length, affect particle diffusion. It is demonstrated how the introduction of the effective chain occupancy, which is a convolution of the geometric chain volume with the walker size, eliminates the conformational effects of the network on the diffusion, i.e., when plotting the diffusion coefficient as a function of the effective chain volume, the data fall onto a master curve. 
0704.03552	An X-ray Survey in SA 57 with XMM-Newton	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:D. Trevese, F. Vagnetti, S. Puccetti, F. Fiore, M. Tomei, M. A. Bershady	 Abstract: The maximum number density of Active Galactic Nuclei (AGNs), as deduced from X-ray studies, occurs at z<~1, with lower luminosity objects peaking at smaller redshifts. Optical studies lead to a different evolutionary behaviour, with a number density peaking at z~2 independently of the intrinsic luminosity, but this result is limited to active nuclei brighter than the host galaxy. A selection based on optical variability can detect low luminosity AGNs (LLAGNs), where the host galaxy light prevents the identification by non-stellar colours. We want to collect X-ray data in a field where it exists an optically-selected sample of "variable galaxies'', i.e. variable objects with diffuse appearance, to investigate the X-ray and optical properties of the population of AGNs, particularly of low luminosity ones, where the host galaxy is visible. We observed a field of 0.2 deg^2 in the Selected Area 57, for 67ks with XMM-Newton. We detected X-ray sources, and we correlated the list with a photographic survey of SA 57, complete to B_J~23 and with available spectroscopic data. We obtained a catalogue of 140 X-ray sources to limiting fluxes 5x10^-16, 2x10^-15 erg/cm^2/s in the 0.5-2 keV and 2-10 keV respectively, 98 of which are identified in the optical bands. The X-ray detection of part of the variability-selected candidates confirms their AGN nature. Diffuse variable objects populate the low luminosity side of the sample. Only 25/44 optically-selected QSOs are detected in X-rays. 15% of all QSOs in the field have X/O<0.1. 
0704.03553	The centrality dependence of elliptic flow, the hydrodynamic limit, and  the viscosity of hot QCD	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Hans-Joachim Drescher, Adrian Dumitru, Clement Gombeaud, Jean-Yves Ollitrault	 Abstract: We show that the centrality and system-size dependence of elliptic flow measured at RHIC are fully described by a simple model based on eccentricity scaling and incomplete thermalization. We argue that the elliptic flow is at least 25% below the (ideal) ``hydrodynamic limit'', even for the most central Au-Au collisions. This lack of perfect equilibration allows for estimates of the effective parton cross section in the Quark-Gluon Plasma and of its viscosity to entropy density ratio. We also show how the initial conditions affect the transport coefficients and thermodynamic quantities extracted from the data, in particular the viscosity and the speed of sound. 
0704.03554	Advection-dominated accretion flows with causal viscosity	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Rohta Takahashi	 Abstract: We present the basic equations and sample solutions for the steady-state global transonic solutions of the advection-dominated accretion flows (ADAFs) with a causal viscosity prescription. The procedures for the stable numerical calculations and all explicit formula for obtaining the solutions of ADAFs are also presented. We solve the transonic solutions of ADAFs by using the explicit numerical integrations, as in the Runge-Kutta method. In this calculation method, we first solve the physical values at the sonic radius where L'Hopital's rule is used. Then, we numerically solve the coupled differential equations of the radial velocity, the angular momentum, and the sound speed from the sonic radius in the inward and outward directions. By the calculation procedures presented in this paper, we can cover all parameter spaces of the transonic solutions of ADAFs. Sample transonic solutions for ADAF-thick disk and ADAF-thin disk are presented. The explicit formula for the analytical expansion around the singular points, the sonic and the viscous points, are presented. If we set the diffusion timescale to null, the formalism in this study becomes the formalism of the acausal viscosity that is usually used in past studies for calculating of the ADAF structure. 
0704.03555	Atomic physics experiments with trapped and cooled highly charged ions	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:H.-J. Kluge, W. Quint, D.F.A. Winters	 Abstract: Trapping and cooling techniques have become very important for many fundamental experiments in atomic physics. When applied to highly charged ions confined in Penning traps, these procedures are very effective for testing quantum electrodynamics in extreme electromagnetic fields produced by heavy highly charged ions such as uranium U$^{91+}$. In addition, fundamental constants or nuclear ground state properties can be determined with high accuracy in these simple systems. Finally, by studying a single trapped radioactive ion, its nuclear decay can be studied in detail by observing the disappearance of the signal of the mother and the appearance of that of the daughter isotope. Such experiments on highly charged ions at extremely low energy will become possible by the HITRAP facility which is currently being built up at GSI. Also the future Facility for Antiproton and Ion Research (FAIR) will be briefly described which is expected to be operational by 2014. 
0704.03556	Low frequency dispersive estimates for the wave equation in higher  dimensions	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Simon Moulin (LMJL)	 Abstract: We prove dispersive estimates at low frequency in dimensions n greater or equal to 4 for the wave equation for a very large class of real-valued potentials, provided the zero is neither an eigenvalue nor a resonance. 
0704.03557	Searching for coronal radio emission from protostars using  Very-Long-Baseline Interferometry	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jan Forbrich, Maria Massi, Eduardo Ros, Andreas Brunthaler, Karl Menten (Max-Planck-Institut für Radioastronomie, Bonn)	 Abstract: In order to directly study the role of magnetic fields in the immediate vicinity of protostars, we use Very-Long-Baseline Interferometry (VLBI), aiming at the detection of non-thermal centimetric radio emission. This is technically the only possibility to study coronal emission at sub-AU resolution. We performed VLBI observations of the four nearby protostars HL Tau, LDN 1551 IRS5, EC 95, and YLW 15 in order to look for compact non-thermal centimetric radio emission. For maximum sensitivity, we used the High Sensitivity Array (HSA) where possible, involving the Very Long Baseline Array (VLBA), the phased Very Large Array (VLA), as well as the Arecibo, Green Bank, and Effelsberg radio telescopes. While all four protostars were detected in VLA-only data, only one source (YLW 15 VLA 2) was detected in the VLBI data. The possibility of non-detections due to free-free absorption, possibly depending on source geometry, is considered. For YLW 15 VLA 2, the prospects for an accurate orbit determination appear to be good. 
0704.03558	Weakly Compact "Matrices", Fubini-Like Property and Extension of Densely  Defined Semigroups of Operators	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Eliahu Levy	 Abstract: Taking matrix as a synonym for a numerical function on the Cartesian product of two (in general, infinite) sets, a simple purely algebraic "reciprocity property" says that the set of rows spans a finite-dim space iff the set of columns does so. Similar topological reciprocity properties serve to define strongly compact and weakly compact matrices, featured in the well-known basic facts about almost periodic functions and about compact operators. Some properties, especially for the weak compact case, are investigated, such as the connection with the matrix having a Fubini-like property for general means. These are applied to prove possibility of extension to the entire semigroup of bounded densely defined semigroups of operators in a Banach space with weak continuity properties. 
0704.03559	Pseudo-supersymmetry and a Tale of Alternate Realities	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:E.A. Bergshoeff, J. Hartong, A. Ploegh, J. Rosseel, D. Van den Bleeken	 Abstract: We discuss how all variant 10d and 11d maximal supergravities, including star supergravities and supergravities in different signatures, can be obtained as different real slices of three complex actions. As an application we study the recently introduced domain-wall/cosmology correspondence in this approach. We give an example in 9d and 10d where the domain-wall and corresponding cosmology can be viewed as different real slices of the same complex solution. We argue how in this case the pseudo-supersymmetry of the cosmological solutions can be understood as the invariance under supersymmetry of a variant supergravity. 
0704.03560	Tuning Spontaneous Emission versus Forster Energy Transfer in Biological  Systems by Manipulating the Density of Photonic States	Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)	Authors:Christian Blum, Willem L. Vos, Vinod Subramaniam	 Abstract: We theoretically discuss how to tune the competition between Forster transfer and spontaneous emission in a continuous and nondestructive fashion. The proposed approach is especially suitable for delicate biological systems like light harvesting complexes and fluorescent protein oligomers. We demonstrate that the manipulation of the density of photonic states at the emission frequency of the energy donor results in a change of the quantum efficiencies of the competing energy transfer and spontaneous emission processes. This change will be manifested in a modification of the donor and acceptor emission intensities. Thus, by controlling the local density of photonic states Forster coupled systems can be manipulated and analyzed without the need to physically separate donor and acceptor chromophores for individual analysis, which is of interest, for example, for oligomeric reef coral fluorescent proteins. 
0704.03561	Covers of Multiplicative Groups of Algebraically Closed Fields of  Arbitrary Characteristic	Logic (math.LO)	Authors:Martin Bays, Boris Zilber	 Abstract: We show that algebraic analogues of universal group covers, surjective group homomorphisms from a $\mathbb{Q}$-vector space to $F^{\times}$ with "standard kernel", are determined up to isomorphism of the algebraic structure by the characteristic and transcendence degree of $F$ and, in positive characteristic, the restriction of the cover to finite fields. This extends the main result of "Covers of the Multiplicative Group of an Algebraically Closed Field of Characteristic Zero" (B. Zilber, JLMS 2007), and our proof fills a hole in the proof given there. 
0704.03562	Measurement of D mesons Production in Deep Inelastic Scattering at HERA	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:ZEUS Collaboration: S. Chekanov, et al	 Abstract: Charm production in deep inelastic scattering has been measured with the ZEUS detector at HERA using an integrated luminosity of 82 pb^{-1}. Charm has been tagged by reconstructing D^{*+}, D^0, D^{+} and D_s^+ (+ c.c.) charm mesons. The charm hadrons were measured in the kinematic range p_T(D^{*+},D^0,D^{+}) > 3 GeV, p_T(D_s^+)>2 GeV and |\eta(D)| < 1.6 for 1.5 < Q^2 < 1000 GeV^2 and 0.02 < y < 0.7. The production cross sections were used to extract charm fragmentation ratios and the fraction of c quarks hadronising into a particular charm meson in the kinematic range considered. The cross sections were compared to the predictions of next-to-leading-order QCD, and extrapolated to the full kinematic region in p_T(D) and \eta(D) in order to determine the open-charm contribution, F_2^{c\bar{c}}(x,Q^2), to the proton structure function F_2. 
0704.03563	Path integral quantization of scalar fluctuations above a kink	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Jean Alexandre, Konstantinos Farakos	 Abstract: We quantize scalar fluctuations in 1+1 dimensions above a classical background kink. The properties of the effective action for the corresponding classical field are studied with an exact functional method, alternative to exact Wilsonian renormalization, where the running parameter is a bare mass, and the regulator of the quantum theory is fixed. We extend this approach, in an appendix, to a Yukawa interaction in higher dimension. 
0704.03564	The critical temperature for the BCS equation at weak coupling	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Rupert L. Frank, Christian Hainzl, Serguei Naboko, Robert Seiringer	 Abstract: For the BCS equation with local two-body interaction $\lambda V(x)$, we give a rigorous analysis of the asymptotic behavior of the critical temperature as $\lambda \to 0$. We derive necessary and sufficient conditions on $V(x)$ for the existence of a non-trivial solution for all values of $\lambda>0$. 
0704.03565	Enumerating permutations avoiding more than three Babson - Steingr\'ı  msson patterns	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Antonio Bernini, Elisa Pergola	 Abstract: Not long ago, Claesson and Mansour proposed some conjectures about the enumeration of the permutations avoiding more than three Babson - Steingr\'\i msson patterns (generalized patterns of type $(1,2)$ or $(2,1)$). The avoidance of one, two or three patterns has already been considered. Here, the cases of four and five forbidden patterns are solved and the exact enumeration of the permutations avoiding them is given, confirming the conjectures of Claesson and Mansour. The approach we use can be easily extended to the cases of more than five forbidden patterns. 
0704.03566	Biquadratic antisymmetric exchange and the magnetic phase diagram of  magnetoelectric CuFeO$_2$	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:M.L. Plumer	 Abstract: Biquadratic {\it antisymmetric} exchange terms of the form $ - [C_{ij} e^{\alpha}_{ij}({\bf s}_i\times{\bf s}_j)_z]^2$, where ${\bf e}_{ij}$ is the unit vector connecting sites $i$ and $j$ and $\alpha = x,y$, due partially to magnetoelectric coupling effects, are shown to be responsible for the spin-flop helical phase in CuFeO$_2$ at low magnetic field and temperature. Usual biquadratic {\it symmetric} exchange, likely due to magnetoelastic coupling, is found to support the stability of axial magnetic states at higher fields in this nearly-Heisenberg like stacked triangular antiferromagnet. A model Hamiltonian which also includes substantial interplane and higher-neighbor intraplane exchange interactions, reproduces the unique series of observed commensurate and incommensurate periodicity phases with increasing applied magnetic field in this highly frustrated system. The magnetic field-temperature phase diagram is discussed in terms of a Landau-type free energy. 
0704.03567	Cosmic-Ray Events as Background in Imaging Atmospheric Cherenkov  Telescopes	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Gernot Maier, Johannes Knapp	 Abstract: The dominant background for observations of gamma-rays in the energy region above 50 GeV with Imaging Atmospheric Cherenkov telescopes are cosmic-ray events. The images of most of the cosmic ray showers look significantly different from those of gamma-rays and are therefore easily discriminated. However, a small fraction of events seems to be indistinguishable from gamma-rays. This constitutes an irreducible background to the observation of high-energy gamma-ray sources, and limits the sensitivity achievable with a given instrument. Here, a Monte Carlo study of gamma-like cosmic-ray events is presented. The nature of gamma-like cosmic-ray events, the shower particles that are responsible for the gamma-like appearance, and the dependence of these results on the choice of the hadronic interaction model are investigated. Most of the gamma-like cosmic ray events are characterised by the production of high-energy pi0's early in the shower development which dump most of the shower energy into electromagnetic sub-showers. Also Cherenkov light from single muons can mimic gamma-rays in close-by pairs of telescopes. Differences of up to 25% in the collection area for gamma-like proton showers between QGSJet/FLUKA and Sibyll/FLUKA simulations have been found. 
0704.03568	Fermion Masses and Mixings in GUTs with Non-Canonical U(1)_Y	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Ilia Gogoladze, Chin-Aik Lee, Tianjun Li, Qaisar Shafi	 Abstract: We discuss fermion masses and mixings in models derived from orbifold GUTs such that gauge coupling unification is achieved without low energy supersymmetry by utilizing a non-canonical U(1)_Y. A gauged U(1)_X flavor symmetry plays an essential role, and the Green-Schwarz mechanism is invoked in anomaly cancellations. Models containing vector-like particles with masses close to M_{GUT} are also discussed. 
0704.03569	Generalized rotational hamiltonians from nonlinear angular momentum  algebras	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:A. Ballesteros, O. Civitarese, F. J. Herranz, M. Reboiro	 Abstract: Higgs algebras are used to construct rotational Hamiltonians. The correspondence between the spectrum of a triaxial rotor and the spectrum of a cubic Higgs algebra is demonstrated. It is shown that a suitable choice of the parameters of the polynomial algebra allows for a precise identification of rotational properties. The harmonic limit is obtained by a contraction of the algebra, leading to a linear symmetry. 
0704.03570	Anomalous dimensions at twist-3 in the sl(2) sector of N=4 SYM	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Matteo Beccaria	 Abstract: We consider twist-3 operators in the sl(2) sector of N=4 SYM built out of three scalar fields with derivatives. We extract from the Bethe Ansatz equations of this sector the exact lowest anomalous dimension gamma(s) of scaling fields for several values of the operator spin s. We propose compact closed expressions for the spin dependence of gamma(s) up to the four loop level and show that they obey a simple new twist-3 transcendentality principle. As a check, we reproduce the four loop universal cusp anomalous dimension governing the logarithmic large spin limit of gamma(s). 
0704.03571	A Gravity Dual and LHC Study of Single-Sector Supersymmetry Breaking	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Maxime Gabella, Tony Gherghetta, Joel Giedt	 Abstract: We propose a gravitational dual of ``single-sector'' models of supersymmetry breaking which contain no messenger sector and naturally explain the scale of supersymmetry breaking and the fermion mass hierarchy. In five dimensions these models can be given a simple interpretation. Inspired by flux-background solutions of type IIB supergravity, a metric background that deviates from AdS_5 in the IR breaks supersymmetry, while the fermion mass hierarchy results from the wavefunction overlap of bulk fermions with a UV-confined Higgs field. The first and second generation squarks and sleptons, which are localized near the IR brane, directly feel the supersymmetry breaking and obtain masses of order 10 TeV. These are interpreted as composite states of the dual 4D theory. The gauginos and third generation squarks and sleptons are elementary states that obtain soft masses of order 1 TeV at the loop level via direct gauge mediation. This particle spectrum leads to distinctive signatures at the LHC, similar to the usual gauge mediation with a neutralino NLSP that decays promptly to a gravitino LSP, but with lower event rates. Nevertheless we show that with 1-10 fb^{-1} of LHC data "single-sector" models can easily be detected above background and distinguished from conventional gravity and gauge mediation. 
0704.03572	The subpulse modulation properties of pulsars at 92 cm and the frequency  dependence of subpulse modulation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. Weltevrede, B.W. Stappers, R.T. Edwards	 Abstract: A large sample of pulsars has been observed to study their subpulse modulation at an observing wavelength (when achievable) of both 21 and 92 cm using the Westerbork Synthesis Radio Telescope. In this paper we present the 92-cm data and a comparison is made with the already published 21-cm results. We analysed 191 pulsars at 92 cm using fluctuation spectra. The sample of pulsars is as unbiased as possible towards any particular pulsar characteristics. For 15 pulsars drifting subpulses are discovered for the first time and 26 of the new drifters found in the 21-cm data are confirmed. We discovered nulling for 8 sources and 8 pulsars are found to intermittently emit single pulses that have pulse energies similar to giant pulses. It is estimated that at least half of the total population of pulsars have drifting subpulses when observations with a high enough signal-to-noise ratio would be available. It could well be that the drifting subpulse mechanism is an intrinsic property of the emission mechanism itself, although for some pulsars it is difficult or impossible to detect. Drifting subpulses are in general found at both frequencies, although the chance of detecting drifting subpulses is possibly slightly higher at 92 cm. It appears that the youngest pulsars have the most disordered subpulses and the subpulses become more and more organized into drifting subpulses as the pulsar ages. The correlations with the modulation indices are argued to be consistent with the picture in which the radio emission can be divided in a drifting subpulse signal plus a quasi-steady signal which becomes, on average, stronger at high observing frequencies. The measured values of P3 at the two frequencies are highly correlated, but there is no evidence for a correlation with other pulsar parameters. 
0704.03573	Simulating spin systems on IANUS, an FPGA-based computer	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:F. Belletti, M. Cotallo, A. Cruz, L. A. Fernández, A. Gordillo, A. Maiorano, F. Mantovani, E. Marinari, V. Martín-Mayor, A. Muñoz-Sudupe, D. Navarro, S. Pérez-Gaviro, J. J. Ruiz-Lorenzo, S. F. Schifano, D. Sciretti, A. Tarancón, R. Tripiccione, J. L. Velasco	 Abstract: We describe the hardwired implementation of algorithms for Monte Carlo simulations of a large class of spin models. We have implemented these algorithms as VHDL codes and we have mapped them onto a dedicated processor based on a large FPGA device. The measured performance on one such processor is comparable to O(100) carefully programmed high-end PCs: it turns out to be even better for some selected spin models. We describe here codes that we are currently executing on the IANUS massively parallel FPGA-based system. 
0704.03574	Space of Quantum Theory Representations of Natural Numbers, Integers,  and Rational Numbers	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Paul Benioff	 Abstract: This paper extends earlier work on quantum theory representations of natural numbers N, integers I, and rational numbers Ra to describe a space of these representations and transformations on the space. The space is parameterized by 4-tuple points in a parameter set. Each point, (k,m,h,g), labels a specific representation of X = N, I, Ra as a Fock space F^{X}_{k,m,h} of states of finite length strings of qukits q and a string state basis B^{X}_{k,m,h,g}. The pair (m,h) locates the q string in a square integer lattice I \times I, k is the q base, and the function g fixes the gauge or basis states for each q. Maps on the parameter set induce transformations on on the representation space. There are two shifts, a base change operator W_{k',k}, and a basis or gauge transformation function U_{k}. The invariance of the axioms and theorems for N, I, and Ra under any transformation is discussed along with the dependence of the properties of W_{k',k} on the prime factors of k' and k. This suggests that one consider prime number q's, q_{2}, q_{3}, q_{5}, etc. as elementary and the base k q's as composites of the prime number q's. 
0704.03575	Averages of b-hadron properties at the end of 2006	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:Heavy Flavor Averaging Group (HFAG) (E. Barberio et al.)	 Abstract: This article reports the world averages for measurements on b-hadron properties obtained by the Heavy Flavor Averaging Group (HFAG) using the available results at the end of 2006. In the averaging, the input parameters used in the various analyses are adjusted (rescaled) to common values, and all known correlations are taken into account. The averages include lifetimes, neutral meson mixing parameters, parameters of semileptonic decays, branching fractions of B decays to final states with open charm, charmonium and no charm, and measurements related to CP asymmetries. 
0704.03576	A class of generalized complex Hermite polynomials	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Allal Ghanmi	 Abstract: A class of generalized complex polynomials of Hermite type, suggested by a special magnetic Schrodinger operator, is introduced and some related basic properties are discussed. 
0704.03577	A family of (2+1)-dimensional hydrodynamic type systems possessing  pseudopotential	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Alexander Odesskii	 Abstract: We construct a family of integrable hydrodynamic type systems with three independent and n>1 dependent variables in terms of solutions of linear system of PDEs with rational coefficients. We choose the existence of a pseudopotential as a criterion of integrability. In the case n=2 this family is a general solution of the classification problem for such systems. We give also an elliptic analog of this family in the case n>2. 
0704.03578	Dual nature of improper ferroelectricity in a magnetoelectric  multiferroic	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Silvia Picozzi, Kunihiko Yamauchi, Biplab Sanyal, Ivan A. Sergienko, Elbio Dagotto	 Abstract: Using first principles calculations, we study the microscopic origin of ferroelectricity (FE) induced by magnetic order in the orthorhombic HoMnO3. We obtain the largest ferroelectric polarization observed in the whole class of improper magnetic ferroelectrics to date. We find that the two proposed mechanisms for FE in multiferroics, lattice- and electronic-based, are simultaneously active in this compound: a large portion of the ferroelectric polarization arises due to quantum-mechanical effects of electron orbital polarization, in addition to the conventional polar atomic displacements. An interesting mechanism for switching the magnetoelectric domains by an electric field via a 180-degree coherent rotation of Mn spins is also proposed. 
0704.03579	The Rise of Big Bang Models, from Myth to Theory and Observations	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jean-Pierre Luminet	 Abstract: We provide an epistemological analysis of the developments of relativistic cosmology from 1917 to 2006, based on the seminal articles by Einstein, de Sitter, Friedmann, Lemaitre, Hubble, Gamow and other main historical figures of the field. It appears that most of the ingredients of the present-day standard cosmological model, such as the accelation of the expansion due to a repulsive dark energy, the interpretation of the cosmological constant as vacuum energy or the possible non-trivial topology of space, had been anticipated by Lemaitre, although his papers remain desperately unquoted. 
0704.03580	Binding energies of semirelativistic N-boson systems	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Richard L. Hall, Wolfgang Lucha	 Abstract: General analytic energy bounds are derived for N-boson systems governed by semirelativistic Hamiltonians of the form H=\sum_{i=1}^N \sqrt(p_i^2+m^2) + \sum_{1=i<j}^N V(r_{ij}), where V(r) is a static attractive pair potential. A translation-invariant model Hamiltonian H_c is constructed. We conjecture that <H> \ge <H_c> generally, and we prove this for N=3, and for N=4 when m=0. The conjecture is also valid generally for the harmonic oscillator and in the nonrelativistic large-m limit. This formulation allows reductions to scaled 3- or 4-body problems, whose spectral bottoms provide energy lower bounds. The example of the ultrarelativistic linear potential is studied in detail and explicit upper- and lower-bound formulas are derived and compared with earlier bounds. 
0704.03581	Fueling the central engine of radio galaxies. I. The molecular/dusty  disk of 4C 31.04	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Garcia-Burillo, F. Combes, R. Neri, A. Fuente, A. Usero, S. Leon, J. Lim	 Abstract: We report the detection of a massive (M(gas) > 5x10^9 Msun) molecular/dusty disk of 1.4kpc-size fueling the central engine of the Compact Symmetric Object (CSO) 4C31.04 based on high-resolution (0.5''--1.2'') observations done with the IRAM Plateau de Bure interferometer (PdBI). These observations allow for the first time to detect and map the continuum emission from dust at 218GHz in the disk of a CSO. The case for a massive disk is confirmed by the detection of strong HCO+(1--0) line emission and absorption. The molecular gas mass of 4C31.04 is in the range 0.5x10^10--5x10^10Msun. While the distribution and kinematics of the gas correspond roughly to those of a rotating disk, we find evidence of distortions and non-circular motions suggesting that the disk is not in a dynamically relaxed state. We discuss the implications of these results for the general understanding of the evolution of radio galaxies. 
0704.03582	Two-loop QED corrections to Bhabha scattering	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Thomas Becher, Kirill Melnikov	 Abstract: We obtain a simple relation between massless and massive scattering amplitudes in gauge theories in the limit where all kinematic invariants are large compared to particle masses. We use this relation to derive the two-loop QED corrections to large-angle Bhabha scattering. 
0704.03583	Sub-arcsecond CO(1-0) and CO(2-1) observations of the ultraluminous  infrared galaxy IRAS 10190+1322	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. Gracia-Carpio (1), P. Planesas (1), L. Colina (2) ((1) OAN, Madrid, Spain, (2) IEM, CSIC, Madrid, Spain)	 Abstract: We present the results of high resolution mapping of the CO(1-0) and CO(2-1) emission of the ultraluminous infrared galaxy (ULIRG) IRAS 10190+1322, with the IRAM interferometer, down to an angular resolution of ~0.3 arcsec. This object is composed of two interacting galaxies with a projected nuclear separation of 6 kpc, and was selected to analyze the physical and dynamical properties of the molecular gas in each galaxy in order to study the conditions that lead a galaxy pair to become ultraluminous in the infrared. With the exception of Arp 220, the closest ULIRG, this is the first time that the CO emission is morphologically and kinematically resolved in the two interacting galaxies of a ULIRG system. In one of the galaxies the molecular gas is highly concentrated, distributed in a circumnuclear disk of 1.7 kpc in size. The molecular gas in the presumably less infrared luminous galaxy is distributed in a more extended disk of 7.4 kpc. The molecular gas mass accounts for ~10% of the dynamical mass in each galaxy. Both objects are rich enough in molecular gas, Mgas ~ 4 10^9 Msun, as to experience an infrared ultraluminous phase. 
0704.03584	A Search for Planets Transiting the M Dwarf Debris Disk Host, AU  Microscopii	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Leslie Hebb, Larry Petro, Holland C. Ford, David R. Ardila, Ignacio Toledo, Dante Minniti, David A. Golimowski, Mark Clampin	 Abstract: We present high cadence, high precision multi-band photometry of the young, M1Ve, debris disk star, AU Microscopii. The data were obtained in three continuum filters spanning a wavelength range from 4500\AA to 6600\AA, plus H$\alpha$, over 28 nights in 2005. The lightcurves show intrinsic stellar variability due to starspots with an amplitude in the blue band of 0.051 magnitudes and a period of 4.847 days. In addition, three large flares were detected in the data which all occur near the minimum brightness of the star. We remove the intrinsic stellar variability and combine the lightcurves of all the filters in order to search for transits by possible planetary companions orbiting in the plane of the nearly edge-on debris disk. The combined final lightcurve has a sampling of 0.35 minutes and a standard deviation of 6.8 millimags (mmag). We performed Monte Carlo simulations by adding fake transits to the observed lightcurve and find with 95% significance that there are no Jupiter mass planets orbiting in the plane of the debris disk on circular orbits with periods, P $\le 5$ days. In addition, there are no young Neptune-like planets (with radii 2.5$\times$ smaller than the young Jupiter) on circular orbits with periods, P $\le 3$ days. 
0704.03585	Phases of QCD, Polyakov Loop and Quasiparticles	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Wolfram Weise, Claudia Ratti, Simon Roessner	 Abstract: QCD thermodynamics is studied using a model which combines Polyakov loop dynamics with spontaneous chiral symmetry breaking and its restoration (the PNJL model). The input is fixed entirely by pure-gauge lattice QCD results and by pion properties in vacuum. Successful comparisons with results from thermal lattice QCD are achieved, including extrapolations to finite quark chemical potential. The phase diagram and selected susceptibilities for two quark flavors are investigated with inclusion of diquark degrees of freedom. 
0704.03586	Dressing and Wrapping	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:A.V. Kotikov, L.N. Lipatov, A. Rej, M. Staudacher, V.N. Velizhanin	 Abstract: We prove that the validity of the recently proposed dressed, asymptotic Bethe ansatz for the planar AdS/CFT system is indeed limited at weak coupling by operator wrapping effects. This is done by comparing the Bethe ansatz predictions for the four-loop anomalous dimension of finite-spin twist-two operators to BFKL constraints from high-energy scattering amplitudes in N=4 gauge theory. We find disagreement, which means that the ansatz breaks down for length-two operators at four-loop order. Our method supplies precision tools for multiple all-loop tests of the veracity of any yet-to-be constructed set of exact spectral equations. Finally we present a conjecture for the exact four-loop anomalous dimension of the family of twist-two operators, which includes the Konishi field. 
0704.03587	Statistics of Core Lifetimes in Numerical Simulations of Turbulent,  Magnetically Supercritical Molecular Clouds	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Roberto Galván-Madrid (1), Enrique Vázquez-Semadeni (1), Jongsoo Kim (2), Javier Ballesteros-Paredes (1). ((1) Centro de Radioastronomía y Astrofísica. UNAM. (2) Korea Astronomy and Space Science Institute.)	 Abstract: We present measurements of the mean dense core lifetimes in numerical simulations of magnetically supercritical, turbulent, isothermal molecular clouds, in order to compare with observational determinations. "Prestellar" lifetimes (given as a function of the mean density within the cores, which in turn is determined by the density threshold n_thr used to define them) are consistent with observationally reported values, ranging from a few to several free-fall times. We also present estimates of the fraction of cores in the "prestellar", "stellar'', and "failed" (those cores that redisperse back into the environment) stages as a function of n_thr. The number ratios are measured indirectly in the simulations due to their resolution limitations. Our approach contains one free parameter, the lifetime of a protostellar object t_yso (Class 0 + Class I stages), which is outside the realm of the simulations. Assuming a value t_yso = 0.46 Myr, we obtain number ratios of starless to stellar cores ranging from 4-5 at n_thr = 1.5 x 10^4 cm^-3 to 1 at n_thr = 1.2 x 10^5 cm^-3, again in good agreement with observational determinations. We also find that the mass in the failed cores is comparable to that in stellar cores at n_thr = 1.5 x 10^4 cm^-3, but becomes negligible at n_thr = 1.2 x 10^5 cm^-3, in agreement with recent observational suggestions that at the latter densities the cores are in general gravitationally dominated. We conclude by noting that the timescale for core contraction and collapse is virtually the same in the subcritical, ambipolar diffusion-mediated model of star formation, in the model of star formation in turbulent supercritical clouds, and in a model intermediate between the previous two, for currently accepted values of the clouds' magnetic criticality. 
0704.03588	On Energy Efficient Hierarchical Cross-Layer Design: Joint Power Control  and Routing for Ad Hoc Networks	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Cristina Comaniciu, H. Vincent Poor	 Abstract: In this paper, a hierarchical cross-layer design approach is proposed to increase energy efficiency in ad hoc networks through joint adaptation of nodes' transmitting powers and route selection. The design maintains the advantages of the classic OSI model, while accounting for the cross-coupling between layers, through information sharing. The proposed joint power control and routing algorithm is shown to increase significantly the overall energy efficiency of the network, at the expense of a moderate increase in complexity. Performance enhancement of the joint design using multiuser detection is also investigated, and it is shown that the use of multiuser detection can increase the capacity of the ad hoc network significantly for a given level of energy consumption. 
0704.03589	What do we really know about mass loss on the AGB?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:L. A. Willson	 Abstract: Mass loss rate formulae are derived from observations or from suites of models. For theoretical models, the following have all been identified as factors greatly influencing the atmospheric structure and mass loss rates: Pulsation with piston amplitude scaling appropriately with stellar L; dust nucleation and growth, with radiation pressure and grain-gas interactions and appropriate dependence on temperature and density; non-grey opacity with at least 51 frequency samples; non-LTE and departures from radiative equilibrium in the compressed and expanding flows; and non-equilibrium processes affecting the composition (grain formation; molecular chemistry). No one set of models yet includes all the factors known to be important. In fact, it is very difficult to construct a model that can simultaneously include these factors and be useful for computing spectra. Therefore, although theoretical model grids are needed to separate the effects of M,L,R and/or $T_{\mathrm{eff}}$ or Z on the mass loss rates, these models must be carefully checked against observations. Getting the right order of magnitude for the mass loss rate is only the first step in such a comparison, and is not sufficient to determine whether the mass loss formula is correct. However, there are observables that do test the validity of mass loss formulae as they depend directly on $d\log \dot M/d\log L$, $d\log \dot M/d\log R$, or $d\log \dot M/d\log P$. 
0704.03590	Spectral fluctuations of tridiagonal random matrices from the  beta-Hermite ensemble	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:C. Male, G. Le Caer, R. Delannay	 Abstract: A time series delta(n), the fluctuation of the nth unfolded eigenvalue was recently characterized for the classical Gaussian ensembles of NxN random matrices (GOE, GUE, GSE). It is investigated here for the beta-Hermite ensemble as a function of beta (zero or positive) by Monte Carlo simulations. The fluctuation of delta(n) and the autocorrelation function vary logarithmically with n for any beta>0 (1<<n<<N). The simple logarithmic behavior reported for the higher-order moments of delta(n) for the GOE (beta=1) and the GUE (beta=2) is valid for any positive beta and is accounted for by Gaussian distributions whose variances depend linearly on ln(n). The 1/f noise previously demonstrated for delta(n) series of the three Gaussian ensembles, is characterized by wavelet analysis both as a function of beta and of N. When beta decreases from 1 to 0, for a given and large enough N, the evolution from a 1/f noise at beta=1 to a 1/f^2 noise at beta=0 is heterogeneous with a ~1/f^2 noise at the finest scales and a ~1/f noise at the coarsest ones. The range of scales in which a ~1/f^2 noise predominates grows progressively when beta decreases. Asymptotically, a 1/f^2 noise is found for beta=0 while a 1/f noise is the rule for beta positive. 
0704.03591	Capacity of a Class of Modulo-Sum Relay Channels	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Marko Aleksic, Peyman Razaghi, Wei Yu	 Abstract: This paper characterizes the capacity of a class of modulo additive noise relay channels, in which the relay observes a corrupted version of the noise and has a separate channel to the destination. The capacity is shown to be strictly below the cut-set bound in general and achievable using a quantize-and-forward strategy at the relay. This result confirms a conjecture by Ahlswede and Han about the capacity of channels with rate limited state information at the destination for this particular class of channels. 
0704.03592	The evolution of interstellar clouds in a streaming hot plasma including  heat conduction	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:W. Vieser (1,2), G. Hensler (1) ((1)Institute of Astronomy Vienna, (2)Christoph-Probst-Gymnasium Gilching)	 Abstract: To examine the evolution of giant molecular clouds in the stream of a hot plasma we performed two-dimensional hydrodynamical simulations that take full account of self-gravity, heating and cooling effects and heat conduction by electrons. We use the thermal conductivity of a fully ionized hydrogen plasma proposed by Spitzer and a saturated heat flux according to Cowie & McKee in regions where the mean free path of the electrons is large compared to the temperature scaleheight. Significant structural and evolutionary differences occur between simulations with and without heat conduction. Dense clouds in pure dynamical models experience dynamical destruction by Kelvin-Helmholtz (KH) instability. In static models heat conduction leads to evaporation of such clouds. Heat conduction acting on clouds in a gas stream smooths out steep temperature and density gradients at the edge of the cloud because the conduction timescale is shorter than the cooling timescale. This diminishes the velocity gradient between the streaming plasma and the cloud, so that the timescale for the onset of KH instabilities increases, and the surface of the cloud becomes less susceptible to KH instabilities. The stabilisation effect of heat conduction against KH instability is more pronounced for smaller and less massive clouds. As in the static case more realistic cloud conditions allow heat conduction to transfer hot material onto the cloud's surface and to mix the accreted gas deeper into the cloud. 
0704.03593	Amplitude Analysis of the decay D^0 --> K^- K^+ pi^0	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:BABAR Collaboration, B. Aubert, et al	 Abstract: Using 385 fb^-1 of e^+e^- collisions at the CM energies of around 10.6 GeV recorded by the BaBar experiment, we study the amplitudes of the singly Cabibbo-suppressed decay D^0 --> K^- K^+ pi^0. We measure the strong phase difference between the D0bar and D0 decays to the K^*(892)^+ K^- state to be -35.5 +/- 1.9 (stat) +/- 2.2 (syst) degrees, and their amplitude ratio to be 0.599 +/- 0.013 (stat) +/- 0.011 (syst). We observe significant contributions from the Kpi and K^-K^+ scalar and vector amplitudes, and analyze the moments of the cosine of the helicity angle in these systems. We find no evidence for charged, scalar kappa(800) state, nor for higher spin states. We also perform a model-independent partial wave analysis of the K^-K^+ system in a limited mass range around 1 GeV/c^2. We study several models for Kpi S-wave amplitude, and describe which one is favored by our data. 
0704.03594	Search for Baryonic Resonances Decaying to Xi pi in Deep-Inelastic  Scattering at HERA	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:H1 Collaboration	 Abstract: A search for narrow baryonic resonances decaying into Xi- pi- or Xi- pi+ and their antiparticles is carried out with the H1 detector using deep inelastic scattering events at HERA in the range of negative photon four-momentum transfer squared 2 < Q^2 < 100 GeV^2. No signal is observed for a new baryonic state in the mass range 1600 - 2300 MeV in either the doubly charged or the neutral decay channels. The known baryon Xi0 is observed through its decay mode into Xi- pi+. Upper limits are given on the ratio of the production rates of new baryonic states, such as the hypothetical pentaquark states Xi^{--}_{5q} or Xi^{0}_{5q}, relative to the Xi0 baryon state. 
0704.03595	4-Dimensional General Relativity from the instrinsic spatial geometry of  SO(3) Yang--Mills theory	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Eyo Eyo Ita III	 Abstract: In this paper we derive 4-dimensional General Relativity from three dimensions, using the intrinsic spatial geometry inherent in Yang--Mills theory which has been exposed by previous authors as well as as some properties of the Ashtekar variables. We provide various interesting relations, including the fact that General Relativity can be written as a Yang--Mills theory where the antiself-dual Weyl curvature replaces the Yang--Mills coupling constant. We have generalized the results of some previous authors, covering Einsteins spaces, to include more general spacetime geometries. 
0704.03596	Comment on "Time Step Sensitivity of Nonlinear Atmospheric Models:  Numerical Convergence, Truncation Error Growth, and Ensemble Design" Teixeira  et al. (2007)	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:Lun-Shin Yao, Dan Hughes	 Abstract: Comment on "Time Step Sensitivity of Nonlinear Atmospheric Models: Numerical Convergence, Truncation Error Growth, and Ensemble Design" Teixeira et al. 
0704.03597	The Sextet Arcs: a Strongly Lensed Lyman Break Galaxy in the ACS  Spectroscopic Galaxy Survey towards Abell 1689	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:B. L. Frye (1), D. Coe (2), D. V. Bowen (3), N. Benitez (2), T. Broadhurst (4), P. Guhathakurta (5), G. Illingworth (5), F. Menanteau (6), K. Sharon (4), R. Lupton (3), G. Meylan (7), K. Zekser (8), G. Meurer (8), M. Hurley (1) ((1) DCU; (2) CSIC; (3) Princeton University; (4) TAU; (5) UCSC; (6) Rutgers University; (7) EPFL Observatoire; (8) JHU)	 Abstract: We present results of the HST Advanced Camera for Surveys spectroscopic ground-based redshift survey in the field of A1689. We measure 98 redshifts, increasing the number of spectroscopically confirmed objects by sixfold. We present two spectra from this catalog of the Sextet Arcs, images which arise from a strongly-lensed Lyman Break Galaxy (LBG) at a redshift of z=3.038. Gravitational lensing by the cluster magnifies its flux by a factor of ~16 and produces six separate images with a total r-band magnitude of r_625=21.7. The two spectra, each of which represents emission from different regions of the LBG, show H I and interstellar metal absorption lines at the systemic redshift. Significant variations are seen in Ly-alpha profile across a single galaxy, ranging from strong absorption to a combination of emission plus absorption. A spectrum of a third image close to the brightest arc shows Ly-alpha emission at the same redshift as the LBG, arising from either another spatially distinct region of the galaxy, or from a companion galaxy close to the LBG. Taken as a group, the Ly-alpha equivalent width in these three spectra decreases with increasing equivalent width of the strongest interstellar absorption lines. We discuss how these variations can be used to understand the physical conditions in the LBG. Intrinsically, this LBG is faint, ~0.1L*, and forming stars at a modest rate, ~4 solar masses per year. We also detect absorption line systems toward the Sextet Arcs at z=2.873 and z=2.534. The latter system is seen across two of our spectra. 
0704.03598	Transient Charging and Discharging of Spin-polarized Electrons in a  Quantum Dot	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:F. M. Souza, S. A. Leao, R. M. Gester, A. P. Jauho	 Abstract: We study spin-polarized transient transport in a quantum dot coupled to two ferromagnetic leads subjected to a rectangular bias voltage pulse. Time-dependent spin-resolved currents, occupations, spin accumulation, and tunneling magnetoresistance (TMR) are calculated using both nonequilibrium Green function and master equation techniques. Both parallel and antiparallel leads' magnetization alignments are analyzed. Our main findings are: a dynamical spin accumulation that changes sign in time, a short-lived pulse of spin polarized current in the emitter lead (but not in the collector lead), and a dynamical TMR that develops negative values in the transient regime. We also observe that the intra-dot Coulomb interaction can enhance even further the negative values of the TMR. 
0704.03599	Inclusive cross section and double helicity asymmetry for π^0  production in p+p collisions at sqrt(s)=200 GeV: Implications for the  polarized gluon distribution in the proton	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:PHENIX Collaboration, A. Adare, et al	 Abstract: The PHENIX experiment presents results from the RHIC 2005 run with polarized proton collisions at sqrt(s)=200 GeV, for inclusive \pi^0 production at mid-rapidity. Unpolarized cross section results are given for transverse momenta p_T=0.5 to 20 GeV/c, extending the range of published data to both lower and higher p_T. The cross section is described well for p_T < 1 GeV/c by an exponential in p_T, and, for p_T > 2 GeV/c, by perturbative QCD. Double helicity asymmetries A_LL are presented based on a factor of five improvement in uncertainties as compared to previously published results, due to both an improved beam polarization of 50%, and to higher integrated luminosity. These measurements are sensitive to the gluon polarization in the proton, and exclude maximal values for the gluon polarization. 
0704.03600	Valence Quarks Polarization from COMPASS	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:A. Korzenev (for the COMPASS collaboration)	 Abstract: A first evaluation of the polarized valence quark distribution $\Delta u_v(x)+\Delta d_v(x)$ from the COMPASS experiment (CERN/SPS) is presented. The data were collected by COMPASS in the years 2002--2004 using a 160 GeV polarized muon beam scattered off a large polarized $^6$LiD target and cover the range $1< Q^2 < 100$ GeV$^2$ and $0.006<x<0.7$. The analysis is based on the difference asymmetry, $A^{h^+ - h^-}$, for hadrons of opposite charges, which gives a direct access to the polarization of valence quarks. 
0704.03601	Investigations of the Non-Linear LMC Cepheid Period-Luminosity Relation  with Testimator and Schwarz Information Criterion Methods	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. M. Kanbur (SUNY-Oswego), C. Ngeow (UIUC), A. Nanthakumar (SUNY-Oswego), R. Stevens (SUNY-Oswego)	 Abstract: In this paper, we investigate the linearity versus non-linearity of the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) Cepheid period-luminosity (P-L) relation using two statistical approaches not previously applied to this problem: the testimator method and the Schwarz Information Criterion (SIC). The testimator method is extended to multiple stages for the first time, shown to be unbiased and the variance of the estimated slope can be proved to be smaller than the standard slope estimated from linear regression theory. The Schwarz Information Criterion (also known as the Bayesian Information Criterion) is more conservative than the Akaike Information Criterion and tends to choose lower order models. By using simulated data sets, we verify that these statistical techniques can be used to detect intrinsically linear and/or non-linear P-L relations. These methods are then applied to independent LMC Cepheid data sets from the OGLE project and the MACHO project, respectively. Our results imply that there is a change of slope in longer period ranges for all of the data sets. This strongly supports previous results, obtained from independent statistical tests, that the observed LMC P-L relation is non-linear with a break period at/around 10 days. 
0704.03602	Intermediate inflation or late time acceleration?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Abhik Kumar Sanyal	 Abstract: The expansion rate of `Intermediate inflation' lies between the exponential and power law expansion but corresponding accelerated expansion does not start at the onset of cosmological evolution. Present study of `Intermediate inflation' reveals that it admits scaling solution and has got a natural exit form it at a later epoch of cosmic evolution, leading to late time acceleration. The corresponding scalar field responsible for such feature is also found to be a tracker field for both gravity with canonical and some non-canonical form of kinetic term. Thus the so called Intermediate inflation should be considered as yet another dark energy model with asymptotic de-Sitter expansion. 
0704.03603	Rapid Mixing of Gibbs Sampling on Graphs that are Sparse on Average	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Elchanan Mossel, Allan Sly	 Abstract: In this work we show that for every $d < \infty$ and the Ising model defined on $G(n,d/n)$, there exists a $\beta_d > 0$, such that for all $\beta < \beta_d$ with probability going to 1 as $n \to \infty$, the mixing time of the dynamics on $G(n,d/n)$ is polynomial in $n$. Our results are the first polynomial time mixing results proven for a natural model on $G(n,d/n)$ for $d > 1$ where the parameters of the model do not depend on $n$. They also provide a rare example where one can prove a polynomial time mixing of Gibbs sampler in a situation where the actual mixing time is slower than $n \polylog(n)$. Our proof exploits in novel ways the local treelike structure of Erd\H{o}s-R\'enyi random graphs, comparison and block dynamics arguments and a recent result of Weitz. Our results extend to much more general families of graphs which are sparse in some average sense and to much more general interactions. In particular, they apply to any graph for which every vertex $v$ of the graph has a neighborhood $N(v)$ of radius $O(\log n)$ in which the induced sub-graph is a tree union at most $O(\log n)$ edges and where for each simple path in $N(v)$ the sum of the vertex degrees along the path is $O(\log n)$. Moreover, our result apply also in the case of arbitrary external fields and provide the first FPRAS for sampling the Ising distribution in this case. We finally present a non Markov Chain algorithm for sampling the distribution which is effective for a wider range of parameters. In particular, for $G(n,d/n)$ it applies for all external fields and $\beta < \beta_d$, where $d \tanh(\beta_d) = 1$ is the critical point for decay of correlation for the Ising model on $G(n,d/n)$. 
0704.03604	ACS imaging of star clusters in M51. I. Identification and radius  distribution	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. A. Scheepmaker, M. R. Haas, M. Gieles, N. Bastian, S. S. Larsen, H. J. G. L. M. Lamers	 Abstract: We use HST/ACS observations of the spiral galaxy M51 in F435W, F555W and F814W to select a large sample of star clusters with accurate effective radius measurements in an area covering the complete disc of M51. We present the dataset and study the radius distribution and relations between radius, colour, arm/interarm region, galactocentric distance, mass and age. We select a sample of 7698 (F435W), 6846 (F555W) and 5024 (F814W) slightly resolved clusters and derive their effective radii by fitting the spatial profiles with analytical models convolved with the point spread function. The radii of 1284 clusters are studied in detail. We find cluster radii between 0.5 and ~10 pc, and one exceptionally large cluster candidate with a radius of 21.6 pc. The median radius is 2.1 pc. We find 70 clusters in our sample which have colours consistent with being old GC candidates and we find 6 new "faint fuzzy" clusters in, or projected onto, the disc of M51. The radius distribution can not be fitted with a power law, but a log-normal distribution provides a reasonable fit to the data. This indicates that shortly after the formation of the clusters from a fractal gas, their radii have changed in a non-uniform way. We find an increase in radius with colour as well as a higher fraction of redder clusters in the interarm regions, suggesting that clusters in spiral arms are more compact. We find a correlation between radius and galactocentric distance which is considerably weaker than the observed correlation for old Milky Way GCs. We find weak relations between cluster luminosity and radius, but we do not observe a correlation between cluster mass and radius. 
0704.03605	Pseudoduality and Conserved Currents in Sigma Models	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Mustafa Sarisaman	 Abstract: We discuss the current conservation laws in sigma models based on a compact Lie groups of the same dimensionality and connected to each other via pseudoduality transformations in two dimensions. We show that pseudoduality transformations induce an infinite number of nonlocal conserved currents on the pseudodual manifold. 
0704.03606	Type I singularities and the Phantom Menace	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Tapan Naskar, John Ward	 Abstract: We consider the future dynamics of a transient phantom dominated phase of the universe in LQC and in the RS braneworld, which both have a non-standard Friedmann equation. We find that for a certain class of potentials, the Hubble parameter oscillates with simple harmonic motion in the LQC case and therefore avoids any future singularity. For more general potentials we find that damping effects eventually lead to the Hubble parameter becoming constant. On the other hand in the braneworld case we find that although the type I singularity can be avoided, the scale factor still diverges at late times. 
0704.03607	Low density expansion and isospin dependence of nuclear energy  functional: comparison between relativistic and Skyrme models	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:C. Providencia, D.P. Menezes, L. Brito, Ph. Chomaz	 Abstract: In the present work we take the non relativistic limit of relativistic models and compare the obtained functionals with the usual Skyrme parametrization. Relativistic models with both constant couplings and with density dependent couplings are considered. While some models present very good results already at the lowest order in the density, models with non-linear terms only reproduce the energy functional if higher order terms are taken into account in the expansion. 
0704.03608	Quantized Transport in Graphene p-n Junctions in Magnetic Field	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:D. A. Abanin, L. S. Levitov	 Abstract: Recent experimental work on locally gated graphene layers resulting in p-n junctions have revealed quantum Hall effect in their transport behavior. We explain the observed conductance quantization which is fractional in the bipolar regime and integer in the unipolar regime in terms of quantum Hall edge modes propagating along and across the p-n interface. In the bipolar regime the electron and hole modes can mix at the p-n boundary, leading to current partition and quantized shot noise plateaus similar to those of conductance, while in the unipolar regime transport is noiseless. These quantum Hall phenomena reflect the massless Dirac character of charge carriers in graphene, with particle-hole interplay manifest in mode mixing and noise in the bipolar regime. 
0704.03609	The Local Galaxy 8 micron Luminosity Function	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J.-S. Huang (1)M. L. N. Ashby (1)P. Barmby (1)M. Brodwin (2)M. J. I. Brown (3)N. Caldwell (1)R. J. Cool (4)P. Eisenhardt (2)D. Eisenstein (4)G. G. Fazio (1)E. Le Floc'h (4)P. Green (1)C. S. Kochanek (6)N. Y. Lu (5)M. A. Pahre (1)D. Rigopoulou (7)J. L. Rosenberg (1,8)H. A. Smith (1)Z. Wang (1)C. N. A. Willmer (4), S. P. Willner (1) ((1) SAO, (2) JPL, (3) Monash Univ. Australia, (4) Univ. of Arizona, (5)SSC, (6) Ohio State Univ., (7)Oxford Univ. UK, (8)George Mason Univ.)	 Abstract: A SST survey in the NOAO Deep-Wide Field in Bo\"otes provides a complete, 8-micron-selected sample of galaxies to a limiting (Vega) magnitude of 13.5. In the 6.88 deg$^2$ field sampled, 79% of the 4867 galaxies have spectroscopic redshifts, allowing an accurate determination of the local (z<0.3) galaxy luminosity function. Stellar and dust emission can be separated on the basis of observed galaxy colors. Dust emission (mostly PAH) accounts for 80% of the 8 micron luminosity, stellar photospheres account for 19%, and AGN emission accounts for roughly 1 %. A sub-sample of the 8 micron-selected galaxies have blue, early-type colors, but even most of these have significant PAH emission. The luminosity functions for the total 8 micron luminosity and for the dust emission alone are both well fit by Schechter functions. For the 8 micron luminosity function, the characteristic luminosity is \nu L_{\nu}^*(8.0 \micron) = 1.8 \times 10^{10}$ \Lsun while for the dust emission alone it is 1.6 x 10^{10}$ \Lsun\null. The average 8 \micron luminosity density at z<0.3 is 3.1 x 10^7 \Lsun Mpc^{-3}, and the average luminosity density from dust alone is 2.5 x 10^7 \Lsun Mpc^{-3}. This luminos ity arises predominantly from galaxies with 8 \micron luminosities ($\nu L_{\nu}$) between $2\times 10^9$ and $2 x 10^{10}$ \Lsun, i.e., normal galaxies, not LIRGs or ULIRGs. 
0704.03610	d-Wave Pairing State in Terms of the Zhang-Rice Singlets	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Akinori Tanaka	 Abstract: In cuprate superconductors doping is believed to create holes on the O-sites, which couple antiferromagnetically with holes on the Cu-sites to form the so-called Zhang-Rice singlets. Here we study a d-wave pairing state based on the Zhang-Rice singlet states. Upper and lower bounds of an off-diagonal long-range order parameter with d-wave symmetry for this state are estimated. We also introduce a concrete model with on-site Coulomb repulsion and kinds of antiferromagnetic interactions whose ground state is this d-wave pairing state. 
0704.03611	UV Star Formation Rates in the Local Universe	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Samir Salim, R. Michael Rich, Stéphane Charlot, Jarle Brinchmann, Benjamin D. Johnson, David Schiminovich, Mark Seibert, Ryan Mallery, Timothy M. Heckman, Karl Forster, Peter G. Friedman, D. Christopher Martin, Patrick Morrissey, Susan G. Neff, Todd Small, Ted K. Wyder, Luciana Bianchi, Jose Donas, Young-Wook Lee, Barry F. Madore, Bruno Milliard, Alex S. Szalay, Barry Y. Welsh, Sukyoung K. Yi	 Abstract: We measure star formation rates of ~50,000 optically-selected galaxies in the local universe (z~0.1), spanning a range from gas-rich dwarfs to massive ellipticals. We obtain dust-corrected SFRs by fitting the GALEX (UV) and SDSS (optical) photometry to a library of population synthesis models that include dust attenuation. For star-forming galaxies, our UV-based SFRs compare remarkably well with those derived from SDSS H alpha. Deviations from perfect agreement between these two methods are due to differences in the dust attenuation estimates. In contrast to H alpha, UV provides reliable SFRs for galaxies with weak or no H alpha emission, and where H alpha is contaminated with an emission from an AGN. We use full-SED SFRs to calibrate a simple prescription that uses GALEX UV magnitudes to produce good SFRs for normal star-forming galaxies. The specific SFR is considered as a function of stellar mass for (1) star-forming galaxies with no AGN, (2) those hosting an AGN, and for (3) galaxies without H alpha emission. We find that the three have distinct star formation histories, with AGN lying intermediate between the star-forming and the quiescent galaxies. Normal star forming galaxies (without an AGN) lie on a relatively narrow linear sequence. Remarkably, galaxies hosting a strong AGN appear to represent the massive continuation of this sequence. Weak AGN, while also massive, have lower SFR, sometimes extending to the realm of quiescent galaxies. We propose an evolutionary sequence for massive galaxies that smoothly connects normal star-forming galaxies to quiescent (red sequence) galaxies via strong and weak AGN. We confirm that some galaxies with no H alpha emission show signs of SF in the UV. We derive a UV-based cosmic SFR density at z=0.1 with smaller total error than previous measurements (abridged). 
0704.03612	Real analytic solutions for marginal deformations in open superstring  field theory	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Yuji Okawa (DESY)	 Abstract: We construct analytic solutions for marginal deformations satisfying the reality condition in open superstring field theory formulated by Berkovits when operator products made of the marginal operator and the associated superconformal primary field are regular. Our strategy is based on the recent observation by Erler that the problem of finding solutions for marginal deformations in open superstring field theory can be reduced to a problem in the bosonic theory of finding a finite gauge parameter for a certain pure-gauge configuration labeled by the parameter of the marginal deformation. We find a gauge transformation generated by a real gauge parameter which infinitesimally changes the deformation parameter and construct a finite gauge parameter by its path-ordered exponential. The resulting solution satisfies the reality condition by construction. 
0704.03613	Metastable Vacua in Perturbed Seiberg-Witten Theories	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Hirosi Ooguri, Yutaka Ookouchi, Chang-Soon Park	 Abstract: We show that, for a generic choice of a point on the Coulomb branch of any N=2 supersymmetric gauge theory, it is possible to find a superpotential perturbation which generates a metastable vacuum at the point. For theories with SU(N) gauge group, such a superpotential can be expressed as a sum of single-trace terms for N=2 and 3. If the metastable point is chosen at the origin of the moduli space, we can show that the superpotential can be a single-trace operator for any N. In both cases, the superpotential is a polynomial of degree 3N of the vector multiplet scalar field. 
0704.03614	The Mean and Scatter of the Velocity Dispersion-Optical Richness  Relation for maxBCG Galaxy Clusters	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. R. Becker, T.A. McKay, B. Koester, R. H. Wechsler, E. Rozo, A. Evrard, D. Johnston, E. Sheldon, J. Annis, E. Lau, R. Nichol, C. Miller	 Abstract: The distribution of galaxies in position and velocity around the centers of galaxy clusters encodes important information about cluster mass and structure. Using the maxBCG galaxy cluster catalog identified from imaging data obtained in the Sloan Digital Sky Survey, we study the BCG-galaxy velocity correlation function. By modeling its non-Gaussianity, we measure the mean and scatter in velocity dispersion at fixed richness. The mean velocity dispersion increases from 202+/-10 km/s for small groups to more than 854+/-102 km/s for large clusters. We show the scatter to be at most 40.5+/-3.5%, declining to 14.9+/-9.4% in the richest bins. We test our methods in the C4 cluster catalog, a spectroscopic cluster catalog produced from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey DR2 spectroscopic sample, and in mock galaxy catalogs constructed from N-body simulations. Our methods are robust, measuring the scatter to well within one-sigma of the true value, and the mean to within 10%, in the mock catalogs. By convolving the scatter in velocity dispersion at fixed richness with the observed richness space density function, we measure the velocity dispersion function of the maxBCG galaxy clusters. Although velocity dispersion and richness do not form a true mass-observable relation, the relationship between velocity dispersion and mass is theoretically well characterized and has low scatter. Thus our results provide a key link between theory and observations up to the velocity bias between dark matter and galaxies. 
0704.03615	Quantum Darwinism in quantum Brownian motion: the vacuum as a witness	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Robin Blume-Kohout, Wojciech H.Zurek	 Abstract: We study quantum Darwinism -- the redundant recording of information about a decohering system by its environment -- in zero-temperature quantum Brownian motion. An initially nonlocal quantum state leaves a record whose redundancy increases rapidly with its spatial extent. Significant delocalization (e.g., a Schroedinger's Cat state) causes high redundancy: many observers can measure the system's position without perturbing it. This explains the objective (i.e. classical) existence of einselected, decoherence-resistant pointer states of macroscopic objects. 
0704.03616	Entanglement and topological entropy of the toric code at finite  temperature	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:C. Castelnovo (1), C. Chamon (2) ((1) Oxford University, (2) Boston University)	 Abstract: We calculate exactly the von Neumann and topological entropies of the toric code as a function of system size and temperature. We do so for systems with infinite energy scale separation between magnetic and electric excitations, so that the magnetic closed loop structure is fully preserved while the electric loop structure is tampered with by thermally excited electric charges. We find that the entanglement entropy is a singular function of temperature and system size, and that the limit of zero temperature and the limit of infinite system size do not commute. From the entanglement entropy we obtain the topological entropy, which is shown to drop to half its zero-temperature value for any infinitesimal temperature in the thermodynamic limit, and remains constant as the temperature is further increased. Such discontinuous behavior is replaced by a smooth decreasing function in finite-size systems. If the separation of energy scales in the system is large but finite, we argue that our results hold at small enough temperature and finite system size, and a second drop in the topological entropy should occur as the temperature is raised so as to disrupt the magnetic loop structure by allowing the appearance of free magnetic charges. We interpret our results as an indication that the underlying magnetic and electric closed loop structures contribute equally to the topological entropy (and therefore to the topological order) in the system. Since each loop structure \emph{per se} is a classical object, we interpret the quantum topological order in our system as arising from the ability of the two structures to be superimposed and appear simultaneously. 
0704.03617	An Atlas of the circumnuclear regions of 75 Seyfert galaxies in the  near-UV with HST Advanced Camera for Surveys	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Víctor M. Muñoz Marín, Rosa M. González Delgado, Henrique R. Schmitt, Roberto Cid Fernandes, Enrique Pérez, Thaisa Storchi-Bergmann, Tim Heckman, Claus Leitherer	 Abstract: We present an atlas of the central regions of 75 Seyfert galaxies imaged in the near-UV with the Advanced Camera for Surveys of the Hubble Space Telescope at an average resolution of ~10pc. These data complement archival high resolution data from the Space Telescope at optical and near-IR wavelengths, creating an extremely valuable dataset for astronomers with a broad range of scientific interests. Our goal is to investigate the nature of the near-UV light in these objects, its relation to the circumnuclear starburst phenomenon, and the connection of this to the evolution and growth of the galaxy bulge and central black hole. In this paper, we describe the near-UV morphology of the objects and characterize the near-UV emission. We estimate the size and the luminosity of the emitting regions and extract the luminosity profile. We also determine the presence of unresolved compact nuclei. In addition, the circumnuclear stellar cluster population is identified, and the contribution of the stellar clusters to the total light, at this wavelength, is estimated. The size of the sample allows us to draw robust statistical conclusions. We find that {Seyfert 1} galaxies are completely dominated by its bright and compact nucleus, that remains point-like at this resolution, while we find almost no unresolved nucleus in Seyfert 2. The Seyfert types 1 and 2 are quite segregated in an asymmetry vs compactness plot. Stellar clusters are found somewhat more frequently in Sy2 (in ~70% of the galaxies) than in Sy1 (~57%), and contribute more to the total light in Sy2, but this two differences seem to be mostly due to the large contribution of the compact nucleus in Sy1, as the luminosity distribution of the clusters is similar in both Sy types. 
0704.03618	Astrophysical Accretion as an Analogue Gravity Phenomena	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Tapas Kumar Das	 Abstract: In recent years, strong analogies have been established between the physics of acoustic perturbations in an inhomogeneous dynamical fluid system, and some kinematic features of space-time in general relativity. An effective metric, referred to as the `acoustic metric', which describes the geometry of the manifold in which acoustic perturbations propagate, can be constructed. This effective geometry can capture the properties of curved space-time in general relativity. Physical models constructed utilizing such analogies are called `analogue gravity models'. Classical analogue gravity effect may be observed when acoustic perturbations propagate through a inhomogeneous transonic classical fluid. The acoustic horizon, which resembles a black hole event horizon in many ways, is generated at the transonic point in the fluid flow. The acoustic horizon is essentially a null hyper surface, generators of which are the acoustic null geodesics, i.e. the phonons. The acoustic horizon emits acoustic radiation with quasi thermal phonon spectra, which is analogous to the actual Hawking radiation. The temperature of the radiation emitted from the acoustic horizon is referred to as the analogue Hawking temperature. It has been demonstrated that, in general, the transonic accretion in astrophysics can be considered as an example of the classical analogue gravity model naturally found in the Universe. 
0704.03619	Predicting the connectivity of primate cortical networks from  topological and spatial node properties	Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)	Authors:Luciano da F Costa, Marcus Kaiser, Claus C Hilgetag	 Abstract: The organization of the connectivity between mammalian cortical areas has become a major subject of study, because of its important role in scaffolding the macroscopic aspects of animal behavior and intelligence. In this study we present a computational reconstruction approach to the problem of network organization, by considering the topological and spatial features of each area in the primate cerebral cortex as subsidy for the reconstruction of the global cortical network connectivity. Starting with all areas being disconnected, pairs of areas with similar sets of features are linked together, in an attempt to recover the original network structure. Inferring primate cortical connectivity from the properties of the nodes, remarkably good reconstructions of the global network organization could be obtained, with the topological features allowing slightly superior accuracy to the spatial ones. Analogous reconstruction attempts for the C. elegans neuronal network resulted in substantially poorer recovery, indicating that cortical area interconnections are relatively stronger related to the considered topological and spatial properties than neuronal projections in the nematode. The close relationship between area-based features and global connectivity may hint on developmental rules and constraints for cortical networks. Particularly, differences between the predictions from topological and spatial properties, together with the poorer recovery resulting from spatial properties, indicate that the organization of cortical networks is not entirely determined by spatial constraints. 
0704.03620	The Intrinsic Origin of Spin Echoes in Dipolar Solids Generated by  Strong Pi Pulses	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Dale Li, Yanqun Dong, R. G. Ramos, J. D. Murray, K. MacLean, A. E. Dementyev, S. E. Barrett	 Abstract: In spectroscopy, it is conventional to treat pulses much stronger than the linewidth as delta-functions. In NMR, this assumption leads to the prediction that pi pulses do not refocus the dipolar coupling. However, NMR spin echo measurements in dipolar solids defy these conventional expectations when more than one pi pulse is used. Observed effects include a long tail in the CPMG echo train for short delays between pi pulses, an even-odd asymmetry in the echo amplitudes for long delays, an unusual fingerprint pattern for intermediate delays, and a strong sensitivity to pi-pulse phase. Experiments that set limits on possible extrinsic causes for the phenomena are reported. We find that the action of the system's internal Hamiltonian during any real pulse is sufficient to cause the effects. Exact numerical calculations, combined with average Hamiltonian theory, identify novel terms that are sensitive to parameters such as pulse phase, dipolar coupling, and system size. Visualization of the entire density matrix shows a unique flow of quantum coherence from non-observable to observable channels when applying repeated pi pulses. 
0704.03621	Exploring the Partonic Structure of Hadrons through the Drell-Yan  Process	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)	Authors:Paul E. Reimer	 Abstract: The Drell-Yan process is a standard tool for probing the partonic structure of hadrons. Since the process proceeds through a quark-antiquark annihilation, Drell-Yan scattering possesses a unique ability to selectively probe sea distributions. This review examines the application of Drell-Yan scattering to elucidating the flavor asymmetry of the nucleon's sea and nuclear modifications to the sea quark distributions in unpolarized scattering. Polarized beams and targets add an exciting new dimension to Drell-Yan scattering. In particular, the two initial-state hadrons give Drell-Yan sensitivity to chirally-odd transversity distributions. 
0704.03622	Disordering Transitions and Peak Effect in Polydisperse Particle Systems	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:C. Reichhardt, C.J. Olson Reichhardt	 Abstract: We show numerically that in a binary system of Yukawa particles, a dispersity driven disordering transition occurs. In the presence of quenched disorder this disordering transition coincides with a marked increase in the depinning threshold, known as a peak effect. We find that the addition of poorly pinned particles can increase the overall pinning in the sample by increasing the amount of topological disorder present. If the quenched disorder is strong enough to create a significant amount of topological disorder in the monodisperse system, addition of a poorly pinned species generates further disorder but does not produce a peak in the depinning force. Our results indicate that for binary mixtures, optimal pinning occurs for topological defect fraction densities of 0.2 to 0.25. For defect densities below this range, the system retains orientational order. We determine the effect of the pinning density, strength, and radius on the depinning peak and find that the peak effect is more pronounced in weakly pinning systems. 
0704.03623	Casimir effect in a 6D warped flux compactification model	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Masato Minamitsuji	 Abstract: We discuss Casimir effect of a massless, minimally coupled scalar field in a 6D warped flux compactification model and its implications for the hierarchy and cosmological constant problems, which are longstanding puzzles in phenomenology and cosmology. Due to the scale invariance of the background theory, the 4D effective theory contains a volume modulus. To stabilize the modulus, we consider one-loop corrections to the effective potential by the Casimir effect. The one-loop effective potential for the volume modulus has a form which is very similar to Coleman-Weinberg potential. We evaluate coefficients appearing in the effective potential by employing zeta function regularization and heat kernel analysis. The volume modulus is stabilized for smaller degrees of warping, below a critical value, which depends on deficit angle of the reference brane. After stabilizing the modulus, it is possible to obtain observed values of the mass ratio between the fundamental energy scales and a tiny effective cosmological constant (though its sign is negative). The degree of warping should be tuned to be close to the critical value, not as severely as the original fine-tuning. 
0704.03624	Anisotropic ac dissipation at the surface of mesoscopic superconductors	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Alexander D. Hernandez, Arturo Lopez, Daniel Dominguez	 Abstract: In this work we study the ac dissipation of mesoscopic superconductors at microwave frequencies using the time dependent Ginzburg-Landau equations. Our numerical simulations show that the ac dissipation is strongly dependent on the orientation of the ac magnetic field ($h_{ac}$) relative to the dc magnetic field ($H_{dc}$). When $h_{ac}$ is parallel to $H_{dc}$ we observe that each vortex penetration event produces a significant supression of the ac losses because the imaginary part of the ac susceptibility as a function of $H_{dc}$ increases before the penetration of vortices, and then it decreases abruptly after vortices have entered into the sample. In the second case, when $h_{ac}$ is perpendicular to $H_{dc}$, we observe that the jumps in dissipation occur at the same values of $H_{dc}$ but are much smaller than in the parallel configuration. The behavior of the dissipation in the perpendicular configuration is similar to previous results obtained in recent microwave experiments using mesoscopic litographed squares of Pb [J. Low Temp. Phys. 135, 119 (2004)]. 
0704.03625	Initial fields and instability in the classical model of the heavy-ion  collision	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Kenji Fukushima	 Abstract: Color Glass Condensate (CGC) provides a classical description of dense gluon matter at high energies. Using the McLerran-Venugopalan (MV) model we calculate the initial energy density \epsilon(\tau) in the early stage of the relativistic nucleus-nucleus collision. Our analytical formula reproduces the quantitative results from lattice discretized simulations and leads to an estimate \epsilon(\tau=0.1fm)=40-50GeV/fm^3 in the Au-Au collision at RHIC energy. We then formulate instability with respect to soft fluctuations that violate boost invariance inherent to hard CGC backgrounds. We find unstable modes arising as a result of ensemble average over the initial CGC fields. 
0704.03626	The Casimir Force in Randall Sundrum Models	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Mariana Frank, Ismail Turan (Concordia Univ.), Lorric Ziegler (Concordia Univ. and Univ. of Geneva)	 Abstract: We discuss and compare the effects of one extra dimension in the Randall Sundrum models on the evaluation of the Casimir force between two parallel plates. We impose the condition that the result reproduce the experimental measurements within the known uncertainties in the force and the plate separation, and get an upper bound kR < 20 if the curvature parameter k of AdS_5 is equal to the Planck scale. Although the upper bound decreases as k decreases, kR ~ 12, which is the required value for solving the hierarchy problem, is consistent with the Casimir force measurements. For the case where the 5th dimension is infinite, the correction to the Casimir force is very small and negligible. 
0704.03627	The Special McKay correspondence as an equivalence of derived categories	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Alastair Craw	 Abstract: We give a new moduli construction of the minimal resolution of the singularity of type 1/r(1,a) by introducing the Special McKay quiver. To demonstrate that our construction trumps that of the G-Hilbert scheme, we show that the induced tautological line bundles freely generate the bounded derived category of coherent sheaves on X by establishing a suitable derived equivalence. This gives a moduli construction of the Special McKay correspondence for abelian subgroups of GL(2). 
0704.03628	A nearly optimal discrete query quantum algorithm for evaluating NAND  formulas	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Andris Ambainis	 Abstract: We present an O(\sqrt{N}) discrete query quantum algorithm for evaluating balanced binary NAND formulas and an O(N^{{1/2}+O(\frac{1}{\sqrt{\log N}})}) discrete query quantum algorithm for evaluating arbitrary binary NAND formulas. 
0704.03629	Resolving the Formation of Protogalaxies. I. Virialization	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:John H. Wise, Tom Abel (KIPAC, Stanford)	 Abstract: (Abridged) Galaxies form in hierarchically assembling dark matter halos. With cosmological three dimensional adaptive mesh refinement simulations, we explore in detail the virialization of baryons in the concordance cosmology, including optically thin primordial gas cooling. We focus on early protogalaxies with virial temperatures of 10^4 K and their progenitors. Without cooling, virial heating occurs in shocks close to the virial radius for material falling in from voids. Material in dense filaments penetrates deeper to about half that radius. With cooling the virial shock position shrinks and also the filaments reach scales as small as a third the virial radius. The temperatures in protogalaxies found in adiabatic simulations decrease by a factor of two from the center and show flat entropy cores. In cooling halos the gas reaches virial equilibrium with the dark matter potential through its turbulent velocities. We observe turbulent Mach numbers ranging from one to three in the cooling cases. This turbulence is driven by the large scale merging and interestingly remains supersonic in the centers of these early galaxies even in the absence of any feedback processes. The virial theorem is shown to approximately hold over 3 orders of magnitude in length scale with the turbulent pressure prevailing over the thermal energy. The turbulent velocity distributions are Maxwellian and by far dominate the small rotation velocities associated with the total angular momentum of the galaxies. Decomposing the velocity field using the Cauchy-Stokes theorem, we show that ample amounts of vorticity are present around shocks even at the very centers of these objects. 
0704.03630	Adiabatic Rotation, Quantum Search and Preparation of Superposition  States	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:M. Stewart Siu	 Abstract: We introduce the idea of using adiabatic rotation to generate superpositions of a large class of quantum states. For quantum computing this is an interesting alternative to the well-studied "straight line" adiabatic evolution. In ways that complement recent results, we show how to efficiently prepare three types of states: Kitaev's toric code state, the cluster state of the measurement-based computation model and the history state used in the adiabatic simulation of quantum circuit. We also show that the method, when adapted for quantum search, provides quadratic speedup as other optimal methods do with the advantages that the problem Hamiltonian is time-independent and that the energy gap above the ground state is strictly nondecreasing with time. Likewise the method can be used for optimization as an alternative to the usual adiabatic algorithm. 
0704.03631	Cohomology of Fiber Products of Local Rings	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:W. Frank Moore	 Abstract: Let $S$ and $T$ be local rings with common residue field $k$, let $R$ be the fiber product $S \times_k T$, and let $M$ be an $S$-module. The Poincar\'e series $P^R_M$ of $M$ has been expressed in terms of $P^S_M$, $P^S_k$ and $P^T_k$ by Kostrikin and Shafarevich, and by Dress and Kr\"amer. Here, an explicit minimal resolution, as well as theorems on the structure of $\Ext_R(k,k)$ and $\Ext_R(M,k)$ are given that illuminate these equalities. Structure theorems for the cohomology modules of fiber products of modules are also given. As an application of these results, we compute the depth of cohomology modules over a fiber product. 
0704.03632	Colossal magnon-phonon coupling in multiferroic  Eu$_{0.75}$Y$_{0.25}$MnO$_3$	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:R. Valdés Aguilar, A. B. Sushkov, C. L. Zhang, Y. J. Choi, S.-W. Cheong, H. D. Drew	 Abstract: We report the spectra of magnetically induced electric dipole absorption in Eu$_{0.75}$Y$_{0.25}$MnO$_3$ from temperature dependent far infrared spectroscopy (10-250 cm$^{-1}$). These spectra, which occur only in the $e||a$ polarization, consist of two relatively narrow electromagnon features that onset at $T_{FE}=30$ K and a broad absorption band that persists to temperatures well above $T_N=47$ K. The observed excitations account for the step up of the static dielectric constant in the ferroelectric phase. The electromagnon at 80 cm$^{-1}$ is observed to be strongly coupled to the nearby lowest optical phonon which transfers more than 1/2 of its spectral weight to the magnon. We attribute the origin of the broad background absorption to the two magnon emission decay process of the phonon. 
0704.03633	Triangulations of projective modules	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:Mark Hovey, Keir H. Lockridge	 Abstract: We show that the category of projective modules over a graded commutative ring admits a triangulation with respect to module suspension if and only if the ring is a finite product of graded fields and exterior algebras on one generator over a graded field (with a unit in the appropriate degree). We also classify the ungraded commutative rings for which the category of projective modules admits a triangulation with respect to the identity suspension. Applications to two analogues of the generating hypothesis in algebraic topology are given, and we translate our results into the setting of modules over a symmetric ring spectrum or S-algebra. 
0704.03634	Gravitational collapse of spherically symmetric plasmas in  Einstein-Maxwell spacetimes	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Paul Lasky, Anthony Lun	 Abstract: We utilize a recent formulation of a spherically symmetric spacetime endowed with a general decomposition of the energy momentum tensor [Phys. Rev. D, 75, 024031 (2007)] to derive equations governing spherically symmetric distributions of electromagnetic matter. We show the system reduces to the Reissner-Nordstrom spacetime in general, spherically symmetric coordinates in the vacuum limit. Furthermore, we show reduction to the charged Vaidya spacetime in non-null coordinates when certain equations of states are chosen. A model of gravitational collapse is discussed whereby a charged fluid resides within a boundary of finite radial extent on the initial hypersurface, and is allowed to radiate charged particles. Our formalism allows for the discussion of all regions in this model without the need for complicated matching schemes at the interfaces between successive regions. As further examples we consider the collapse of a thin shell of charged matter onto a Reissner-Nordstrom black hole. Finally, we reduce the entire system of equations to the static case such that we have the equations for hydrostatic equilibrium of a charged fluid. 
0704.03635	Rough Sets Computations to Impute Missing Data	Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV)	Authors:Fulufhelo Vincent Nelwamondo, Tshilidzi Marwala	 Abstract: Many techniques for handling missing data have been proposed in the literature. Most of these techniques are overly complex. This paper explores an imputation technique based on rough set computations. In this paper, characteristic relations are introduced to describe incompletely specified decision tables.It is shown that the basic rough set idea of lower and upper approximations for incompletely specified decision tables may be defined in a variety of different ways. Empirical results obtained using real data are given and they provide a valuable and promising insight to the problem of missing data. Missing data were predicted with an accuracy of up to 99%. 
0704.03636	Asymptotics of Tracy-Widom distributions and the total integral of a  Painlevé II function	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Jinho Baik, Robert Buckingham, Jeffery DiFranco	 Abstract: The Tracy-Widom distribution functions involve integrals of a Painlev\'e II function starting from positive infinity. In this paper, we express the Tracy-Widom distribution functions in terms of integrals starting from minus infinity. There are two consequences of these new representations. The first is the evaluation of the total integral of the Hastings-McLeod solution of the Painlev\'e II equation. The second is the evaluation of the constant term of the asymptotic expansions of the Tracy-Widom distribution functions as the distribution parameter approaches minus infinity. For the GUE Tracy-Widom distribution function, this gives an alternative proof of the recent work of Deift, Its, and Krasovsky. The constant terms for the GOE and GSE Tracy-Widom distribution functions are new. 
0704.03637	The discrepancy in G-band contrast: Where is the quiet Sun?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Han Uitenbroek, Alexandra Tritschler, Thomas Rimmele	 Abstract: We compare the rms contrast in observed speckle reconstructed G-band images with synthetic filtergrams computed from two magneto-hydrodynamic simulation snapshots. The observations consist of 103 bursts of 80 frames each taken at the Dunn Solar Telescope (DST), sampled at twice the diffraction limit of the telescope. The speckle reconstructions account for the performance of the Adaptive Optics (AO) system at the DST to supply reliable photometry. We find a considerable discrepancy in the observed rms contrast of 14.1% for the best reconstructed images, and the synthetic rms contrast of 21.5% in a simulation snapshot thought to be representative of the quiet Sun. The areas of features in the synthetic filtergrams that have positive or negative contrast beyond the minimum and maximum values in the reconstructed images have spatial scales that should be resolved. This leads us to conclude that there are fundamental differences in the rms G-band contrast between observed and computed filtergrams. On the basis of the substantially reduced granular contrast of 16.3% in the synthetic plage filtergram we speculate that the quiet-Sun may contain more weak magnetic field than previously thought. 
0704.03638	Two-loop world-sheet corrections in AdS_5 x S^5 superstring	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:R. Roiban, A. Tirziu, A. A. Tseytlin	 Abstract: We initiate the computation of the 2-loop quantum AdS_5 x S^5 string corrections on the example of a certain string configuration in S^5 related by an analytic continuation to a folded rotating string in AdS_5 in the ``long string'' limit. The 2-loop term in the energy of the latter should represent the subleading strong-coupling correction to the cusp anomalous dimension and thus provide a further check of recent conjectures about the exact structure of the Bethe ansatz underlying the AdS/CFT duality. We use the conformal gauge and several choices of the \kappa-symmetry gauge. While we are unable to verify the cancellation of 2d UV divergences we compute the bosonic contribution to the effective action and also determine the non-trivial finite part of the fermionic contribution. Both the bosonic and the fermionic contributions to the string energy happen to be proportional to the Catalan's constant. The resulting value for 2-loop superstring prediction for the subleading coefficient a_2 in the scaling function matches the numerical value found in hep-th/0611135 from the BES equation. 
0704.03639	Fundamental Limits to Position Determination by Concentration Gradients	Subcellular Processes (q-bio.SC)	Authors:Filipe Tostevin, Pieter Rein ten Wolde, Martin Howard	 Abstract: Position determination in biological systems is often achieved through protein concentration gradients. Measuring the local concentration of such a protein with a spatially-varying distribution allows the measurement of position within the system. In order for these systems to work effectively, position determination must be robust to noise. Here, we calculate fundamental limits to the precision of position determination by concentration gradients due to unavoidable biochemical noise perturbing the gradients. We focus on gradient proteins with first order reaction kinetics. Systems of this type have been experimentally characterised in both developmental and cell biology settings. For a single gradient we show that, through time-averaging, great precision can potentially be achieved even with very low protein copy numbers. As a second example, we investigate the ability of a system with oppositely directed gradients to find its centre. With this mechanism, positional precision close to the centre improves more slowly with increasing averaging time, and so longer averaging times or higher copy numbers are required for high precision. For both single and double gradients, we demonstrate the existence of optimal length scales for the gradients, where precision is maximized, as well as analyzing how precision depends on the size of the concentration measuring apparatus. Our results provide fundamental constraints on the positional precision supplied by concentration gradients in various contexts, including both in developmental biology and also within a single cell. 
0704.03640	Linked by Loops: Network Structure and Switch Integration in Complex  Dynamical Systems	Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)	Authors:Dennis Cates Wylie	 Abstract: Simple nonlinear dynamical systems with multiple stable stationary states are often taken as models for switchlike biological systems. This paper considers the interaction of multiple such simple multistable systems when they are embedded together into a larger dynamical "supersystem." Attention is focused on the network structure of the resulting set of coupled differential equations, and the consequences of this structure on the propensity of the embedded switches to act independently versus cooperatively. Specifically, it is argued that both larger average and larger variance of the node degree distribution lead to increased switch independence. Given the frequency of empirical observations of high variance degree distributions (e.g., power-law) in biological networks, it is suggested that the results presented here may aid in identifying switch-integrating subnetworks as comparatively homogenous, low-degree, substructures. Potential applications to ecological problems such as the relationship of stability and complexity are also briefly discussed. 
0704.03641	Kondo Physics in Nanotubes: Magnetic-field dependence and  singlet-triplet Kondo	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:C. H. L. Quay, John Cumings, Sara Gamble, R. de Picciotto, H. Kataura, D. Goldhaber-Gordon	 Abstract: In a single-walled carbon nanotube, we observe the spin-1/2 Kondo effect. The energy of spin-resolved Kondo peaks is proportional to magnetic field at high fields, contrary to recent reports. At lower fields, the energy falls below this linear dependence, in qualitative agreement with theoretical expectations. For even electron occupancy, we observe a spin-1 Kondo effect due to the degeneracy of the triplet ground states. Tuning gate voltage within the same Coulomb diamond drives a transition to a singlet ground state. We also independently tune the energy difference between singlet and triplet states with a magnetic field. The Zeeman splitting thus measured confirms the value of the g-factor measured from the spin-1/2 Kondo feature. 
0704.03642	A characterization of round spheres in terms of blocking light	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Benjamin Schmidt, Juan Souto	 Abstract: A closed Riemannian manifold is said to have cross blocking if whenever distinct points p and q are at distance less than the diameter, all light rays from p can be shaded away from q with at most two point shades. Similarly, a closed Riemannian manifold is said to have sphere blocking if for each point p, all the light rays from p are shaded away from p by a single point shade. We prove that Riemannian manifolds with cross and sphere blocking are isometric to round spheres. 
0704.03643	Sabbath Day Home Automation: "It's Like Mixing Technology and Religion"	Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)	Authors:Allison Woodruff, Sally Augustin, Brooke Foucault	 Abstract: We present a qualitative study of 20 American Orthodox Jewish families' use of home automation for religious purposes. These lead users offer insight into real-life, long-term experience with home automation technologies. We discuss how automation was seen by participants to contribute to spiritual experience and how participants oriented to the use of automation as a religious custom. We also discuss the relationship of home automation to family life. We draw design implications for the broader population, including surrender of control as a design resource, home technologies that support long-term goals and lifestyle choices, and respite from technology. 
0704.03644	Capacity Gain from Two-Transmitter and Two-Receiver Cooperation	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Chris T. K. Ng, Nihar Jindal, Andrea J. Goldsmith, Urbashi Mitra	 Abstract: Capacity improvement from transmitter and receiver cooperation is investigated in a two-transmitter, two-receiver network with phase fading and full channel state information available at all terminals. The transmitters cooperate by first exchanging messages over an orthogonal transmitter cooperation channel, then encoding jointly with dirty paper coding. The receivers cooperate by using Wyner-Ziv compress-and-forward over an analogous orthogonal receiver cooperation channel. To account for the cost of cooperation, the allocation of network power and bandwidth among the data and cooperation channels is studied. It is shown that transmitter cooperation outperforms receiver cooperation and improves capacity over non-cooperative transmission under most operating conditions when the cooperation channel is strong. However, a weak cooperation channel limits the transmitter cooperation rate; in this case receiver cooperation is more advantageous. Transmitter-and-receiver cooperation offers sizable additional capacity gain over transmitter-only cooperation at low SNR, whereas at high SNR transmitter cooperation alone captures most of the cooperative capacity improvement. 
0704.03645	Cancellation for inclusions of C*-algebras of finite depth	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Ja A Jeong, Hiroyuki Osaka, N. Christopher Phillips, Tamotsu Teruya	 Abstract: Let B be a unital C*-algebra, let A be a unital subalgebra, and let E be a conditional expectation from B to A with index-finite type and a quasi-basis of n elements. Then the topological stable rank satisfies \tsr (B) \leq \tsr (A) + n - 1. As an application, we show that if a unital inclusion A \subset B of C*-algebras has index-finite type and finite depth, and A is simple with stable rank one and Property (SP), then B has cancellation. In particular, if A is a simple unital C*-algebra with stable rank one and Property (SP), and a finite group G acts on A, then the crossed product has cancellation. Separately, if the group is the integers, we obtain cancellation under the additional hypotheses that the group action is outer and is trivial on K_0 (A). 
0704.03646	Lower Bounds on Implementing Robust and Resilient Mediators	Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)	Authors:Ittai Abraham, Danny Dolev, Joseph Y. Halpern	 Abstract: We consider games that have (k,t)-robust equilibria when played with a mediator, where an equilibrium is (k,t)-robust if it tolerates deviations by coalitions of size up to k and deviations by up to $t$ players with unknown utilities. We prove lower bounds that match upper bounds on the ability to implement such mediators using cheap talk (that is, just allowing communication among the players). The bounds depend on (a) the relationship between k, t, and n, the total number of players in the system; (b) whether players know the exact utilities of other players; (c) whether there are broadcast channels or just point-to-point channels; (d) whether cryptography is available; and (e) whether the game has a $k+t)-punishment strategy; that is, a strategy that, if used by all but at most $k+t$ players, guarantees that every player gets a worse outcome than they do with the equilibrium strategy. 
0704.03647	Evaluating Personal Archiving Strategies for Internet-based Information	Digital Libraries (cs.DL)	Authors:Catherine C. Marshall, Frank McCown, Michael L. Nelson	 Abstract: Internet-based personal digital belongings present different vulnerabilities than locally stored materials. We use responses to a survey of people who have recovered lost websites, in combination with supplementary interviews, to paint a fuller picture of current curatorial strategies and practices. We examine the types of personal, topical, and commercial websites that respondents have lost and the reasons they have lost this potentially valuable material. We further explore what they have tried to recover and how the loss influences their subsequent practices. We found that curation of personal digital materials in online stores bears some striking similarities to the curation of similar materials stored locally in that study participants continue to archive personal assets by relying on a combination of benign neglect, sporadic backups, and unsystematic file replication. However, we have also identified issues specific to Internet-based material: how risk is spread by distributing the files among multiple servers and services; the circular reasoning participants use when they discuss the safety of their digital assets; and the types of online material that are particularly vulnerable to loss. The study reveals ways in which expectations of permanence and notification are violated and situations in which benign neglect has far greater consequences for the long-term fate of important digital assets. 
0704.03648	Perturbed Self-Similar Massless Scalar Field in Spherically Symmetric  Spaceimes	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:M. Sharif	 Abstract: In this paper, we investigate the linear perturbations of the spherically symmetric spacetimes with kinematic self-similarity of the second kind. The massless scalar field equations are solved which yield the background and an exact solutions for the perturbed equations. We discuss the boundary conditions of the resulting perturbed solutions. The possible perturbation modes turn out to be stable as well as unstable. The analysis leads to the conclusion that there does not exist any critical solution. 
0704.03649	Quantile and Probability Curves Without Crossing	Methodology (stat.ME)	Authors:Victor Chernozhukov (MIT), Ivan Fernandez-Val (Boston University), Alfred Galichon (Ecole Polytechnique)	 Abstract: This paper proposes a method to address the longstanding problem of lack of monotonicity in estimation of conditional and structural quantile functions, also known as the quantile crossing problem. The method consists in sorting or monotone rearranging the original estimated non-monotone curve into a monotone rearranged curve. We show that the rearranged curve is closer to the true quantile curve in finite samples than the original curve, establish a functional delta method for rearrangement-related operators, and derive functional limit theory for the entire rearranged curve and its functionals. We also establish validity of the bootstrap for estimating the limit law of the the entire rearranged curve and its functionals. Our limit results are generic in that they apply to every estimator of a monotone econometric function, provided that the estimator satisfies a functional central limit theorem and the function satisfies some smoothness conditions. Consequently, our results apply to estimation of other econometric functions with monotonicity restrictions, such as demand, production, distribution, and structural distribution functions. We illustrate the results with an application to estimation of structural quantile functions using data on Vietnam veteran status and earnings. 
0704.03650	Bernstein-Szego Polynomials Associated with Root Systems	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:J.F. van Diejen, A.C. de la Maza, S. Ryom-Hansen	 Abstract: We introduce multivariate generalizations of the Bernstein-Szego polynomials, which are associated to the root systems of the complex simple Lie algebras. The multivariate polynomials in question generalize Macdonald's Hall-Littlewood polynomials associated with root systems. For the root system of type A1 (corresponding to the Lie algebra SL (2;C)) the classic Bernstein-Szego polynomials are recovered. 
0704.03651	Crossed products by finite group actions with the Rokhlin property	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Hiroyuki Osaka, N. Christopher Phillips	 Abstract: We prove that a number of classes of separable unital C*-algebras are closed under crossed products by finite group actions with the Rokhlin property, including: (1) AI algebras, AT algebras, and related classes characterized by direct limit decompositions using semiprojective building blocks. (2) Simple unital AH algebras with slow dimension growth and real rank zero. (3) C*-algebras with real rank zero or stable rank one. (4) C*-algebras whose quotients all satisfy the Universal Coefficient Theorem. Along the way, we give a systematic treatment of the derivation of direct limit decompositions from local approximation conditions by homomorphic images which are not necessarily injective. 
0704.03652	Possibility of measuring a0(980)-f0(980) mixing from J/psi -> phi a0	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Jia-Jun Wu, Qiang Zhao, B.S.Zou	 Abstract: The a0(980)-f0(980) mixing intensity has been predicted to be in the range of 0.01 to 0.1 by various theoretical models, but lacking firm experimental observation. We examine the possibility of extracting the a0(980)-f0(980) mixing from J/psi -> phi f0 -> phi a0 reaction at upgraded Beijing Electron Positron Collider with BESIII detector. While the branching ratio of this process through the a0(980)-f0(980) mixing is expected to be about $O(10^{-6})$ similar to the estimated total amount from two background reactions J/psi -> gamma* -> phi a0 and J/psi -> K* K + c.c. -> phi a0, the peak width from the a0(980)-f0(980) mixing is about 8 MeV, much smaller than that from other mechanisms. With $10^9$ $J/\psi$ events at BESIII, the a0(980)-f0(980) mixing intensity is expected to be unambiguously and precisely measured. 
0704.03653	The Long Term Fate of Our Digital Belongings: Toward a Service Model for  Personal Archives	Digital Libraries (cs.DL)	Authors:Catherine C. Marshall, Sara Bly, Francoise Brun-Cottan	 Abstract: We conducted a preliminary field study to understand the current state of personal digital archiving in practice. Our aim is to design a service for the long-term storage, preservation, and access of digital belongings by examining how personal archiving needs intersect with existing and emerging archiving technologies, best practices, and policies. Our findings not only confirmed that experienced home computer users are creating, receiving, and finding an increasing number of digital belongings, but also that they have already lost irreplaceable digital artifacts such as photos, creative efforts, and records. Although participants reported strategies such as backup and file replication for digital safekeeping, they were seldom able to implement them consistently. Four central archiving themes emerged from the data: (1) people find it difficult to evaluate the worth of accumulated materials; (2) personal storage is highly distributed both on- and offline; (3) people are experiencing magnified curatorial problems associated with managing files in the aggregate, creating appropriate metadata, and migrating materials to maintainable formats; and (4) facilities for long-term access are not supported by the current desktop metaphor. Four environmental factors further complicate archiving in consumer settings: the pervasive influence of malware; consumer reliance on ad hoc IT providers; an accretion of minor system and registry inconsistencies; and strong consumer beliefs about the incorruptibility of digital forms, the reliability of digital technologies, and the social vulnerability of networked storage. 
0704.03654	A Search for CO(J=3-2) Emission from the Host Galaxy of GRB 980425 with  the Atacama Submillimeter Telescope Experiment	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Bunyo Hatsukade, Kotaro Kohno, Akira Endo, Tomoka Tosaki, Kouji Ohta, Seiichi Sakamoto, Nobuyuki Kawai, Juan R. Cortes, Kouichiro Nakanishi, Takeshi Okuda, Kazuyuki Muraoka, Takeshi Sakai, Paul M. Vreeswijk, Hajime Ezawa, Nobuyuki Yamaguchi, Kazuhisa Kamegai, Ryohei Kawabe	 Abstract: We report on a deep search for CO(J=3-2) line emission from the host galaxy of GRB 980425 with the Atacama Submillimeter Telescope Experiment (ASTE). We observed five points of the galaxy covering the entire region. After combining all of the spectra, we obtained a global spectrum with the rms noise level of 3.3 mK in T_mb scale at a velocity resolution of 10 km s^-1. No significant emission was detected, though we find a marginal emission feature in the velocity range corresponding to the redshift of the galaxy. We derive 3 sigma upper limits on the global properties: the velocity-integrated CO(3-2) intensity of I_CO(3-2) < 0.26 K km s^-1 by adopting a velocity width of 67 km s^-1; the H_2 column density of N(H_2) < 3 x 10^20 cm^-2; the molecular gas mass of M(H_2) < 3 x 10^8 M_sun, by assuming a CO line luminosity to H_2 molecular gas mass conversion factor of X_CO = 5.0 x 10^20 cm^-2 (K km s^-1)^-1; and the star formation rate of SFR < 0.1 M_sun yr^-1, based on the Schmidt law. The SFR is consistent with the previous results of H_alpha and mid-IR observations, thereby suggesting that there is no significant obscured star formation in the host galaxy of GRB 980425. This result implies that there is a variety of GRB hosts with regard to the presence of obscured star formation. 
0704.03655	Equivalence of different descriptions for $η$ Particle in Simplest  Little Higgs Model	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Ran Lu, Qing Wang	 Abstract: In SU(3) simplest little Higgs model, a characteristic particle is the light pseudoscalar boson eta, it leads interesting signals in the LHC/ILC and is studied in literature with different parameterizations. In this work, we show that these different descriptions for eta particle are equivalent up to some SU(3) rotations as long as we suitably redefine the pseudo Goldstone boson fields. We evaluate the necessary SU(3) rotations and built up explicit expressions for redefined fields. 
0704.03656	Phase diagram of the dilute magnet LiHo_xY_{1-x}F_4	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:A. Biltmo, P. Henelius	 Abstract: We study the effective long-range Ising dipole model with a local exchange interaction appropriate for the dilute magnetic compound LiHo_{x}Y_{1-x}F_4. Our calculations yield a value of 0.12 K for the nearest neighbor exchange interaction. Using a Monte Carlo method we calculate the phase boundary T_c(x) between the ferromagnetic and paramagnetic phases. We demonstrate that the experimentally observed linear decrease in T_c with dilution is not the simple mean-field result, but a combination of the effects of fluctuations, the exchange interaction and the hyperfine coupling. Furthermore, we find a critical dilution x_c=0.21(2), below which there is no ordering. In agreement with recent Monte Carlo simulations on a similar model, we find no evidence of the experimentally observed freezing of the glassy state in our calculation. We apply the theory of Stephen and Aharony to LiHo_{x}Y_{1-x}F_4 and find that the theory does predict a finite-temperature freezing of the spin glass. Reasons for the discrepancies are discussed. 
0704.03657	Probability Density of the Multipole Vectors for a Gaussian Cosmic  Microwave Background	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Mark R. Dennis, Kate Land	 Abstract: We review Maxwell's multipole vectors, and elucidate some of their mathematical properties, with emphasis on the application of this tool to the cosmic microwave background (CMB). In particular, for a completely random function on the sphere (corresponding to the statistically isotropic Gaussian model of the CMB), we derive the full probability density function of the multipole vectors. This function is used to analyze the internal configurations of the third-year Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe quadrupole and octopole, and we show the observations are consistent with the Gaussian prediction. A particular aspect is the planarity of the octopole, which we find not to be anomalous. 
0704.03658	Recursive boson system in the Cuntz algebra ${\cal O}_{\infty}$	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Katsunori Kawamura	 Abstract: Bosons and fermions are often written by elements of other algebras. M. Abe gave a recursive realization of the boson by formal infinite sums of the canonical generators of the Cuntz algebra ${\cal O}_{\infty}$. We show that such formal infinite sum always makes sense on a certain dense subspace of any permutative representation of ${\cal O}_{\infty}$. In this meaning, we can regard as if the algebra ${\cal B}$ of bosons was a unital $*$-subalgebra of ${\cal O}_{\infty}$ on a given permutative representation by keeping their unboundedness. By this relation, we compute branching laws arising from restrictions of representations of ${\cal O}_{\infty}$ on ${\cal B}$. For example, it is shown that the Fock representation of ${\cal B}$ is given as the restriction of the standard representation of ${\cal O}_{\infty}$ on ${\cal B}$. 
0704.03659	Conformal dynamics in gauge theories via non-perturbative  renormalization group	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Haruhiko Terao, Akito Tsuchiya	 Abstract: The dynamics at the IR fixed point realized in the $SU(N_c)$ gauge theories with massless Dirac fermions is studied by means of the non-perturbative renormalization group. The analysis includes the IR fixed points with non-trivial Yukawa couplings. The renormalization properties of the scalar field are also discussed and it is shown that hierarchical mass scale may be allowed without intense fine-tuning due to a large anomalous dimension. 
0704.03660	Nonfrustrated magnetoelectric with incommensurate magnetic order in  magnetic field	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:A. V. Syromyatnikov	 Abstract: We discuss a model nonfrustrated magnetoelectric in which strong enough magnetoelectric coupling produces incommensurate magnetic order leading to ferroelectricity. Properties of the magnetoelectric in magnetic field directed perpendicular to wave vector describing the spin helix are considered in detail. Analysis of classical energy shows that in contrast to naive expectation the onset of ferroelectricity takes place at a field $H_{c1}$ that is lower than the saturation field $H_{c2}$. One has $H_{c1}=H_{c2}$ at strong enough magnetoelectric coupling. We show that at H=0 the ferroelectricity appears at $T=T_{FE}<T_N$. Qualitative discussion of phase diagram in $H-T$ plane is presented within mean field approach. 
0704.03661	Complementarity, distillable secret key, and distillable entanglement	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Masato Koashi	 Abstract: We consider controllability of two conjugate observables Z and X by two parties with classical communication. The ability is specified by two alternative tasks, (i) agreement on Z and (ii) preparation of an eigenstate of X with use of an extra communication channel. We prove that their feasibility is equivalent to that of key distillation if the extra channel is quantum, and to that of entanglement distillation if it is classical. This clarifies the distinction between two entanglement measures, distillable key and distillable entanglement. 
0704.03662	An Automated Evaluation Metric for Chinese Text Entry	Human-Computer Interaction (cs.HC)	Authors:Mike Tian-Jian Jiang, James Zhan, Jaimie Lin, Jerry Lin, Wen-Lien Hsu	 Abstract: In this paper, we propose an automated evaluation metric for text entry. We also consider possible improvements to existing text entry evaluation metrics, such as the minimum string distance error rate, keystrokes per character, cost per correction, and a unified approach proposed by MacKenzie, so they can accommodate the special characteristics of Chinese text. Current methods lack an integrated concern about both typing speed and accuracy for Chinese text entry evaluation. Our goal is to remove the bias that arises due to human factors. First, we propose a new metric, called the correction penalty (P), based on Fitts' law and Hick's law. Next, we transform it into the approximate amortized cost (AAC) of information theory. An analysis of the AAC of Chinese text input methods with different context lengths is also presented. 
0704.03663	Quantum storage on subradiant states in an extended atomic ensemble	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Alexey Kalachev	 Abstract: A scheme for coherent manipulation of collective atomic states is developed such that total subradiant states, in which spontaneous emission is suppressed into all directions due to destructive interference between neighbor atoms, can be created in an extended atomic ensemble. The optimal conditions for creation of such states and suitability of them for quantum storage are discussed. It is shown that in order to achieve the maximum signal-to-noise ratio the shape of a light pulse to be stored and reconstructed using a homogeneously broadened absorbtion line of an atomic system should be a time-reversed regular part of the response function of the system. In the limit of high optical density, such pulses allow one to prepare collective subradiant atomic states with near flat spatial distribution of the atomic excitation in the medium. 
0704.03664	Different vacua in 2HDM	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:I. F. Ginzburg, K.A. Kanishev	 Abstract: We discuss the extrema of the Two Higgs Doublet Model with different physical properties. We have found necessary and sufficient conditions for realization of the extrema with different properties as the vacuum state of the model. We found explicit equations for extremum energies via parameters of potential if it has explicitly CP conserving form. These equations allow to pick out extremum with lower energy -- vacuum state and to look for change of extrema (phase transitions) with the variation of parameters of potential. Our goal is to find general picture here to apply it for description of early Universe. 
0704.03665	On the Development of Text Input Method - Lessons Learned	Computation and Language (cs.CL)	Authors:Mike Tian-Jian Jiang, Deng Liu, Meng-Juei Hsieh, Wen-Lien Hsu	 Abstract: Intelligent Input Methods (IM) are essential for making text entries in many East Asian scripts, but their application to other languages has not been fully explored. This paper discusses how such tools can contribute to the development of computer processing of other oriental languages. We propose a design philosophy that regards IM as a text service platform, and treats the study of IM as a cross disciplinary subject from the perspectives of software engineering, human-computer interaction (HCI), and natural language processing (NLP). We discuss these three perspectives and indicate a number of possible future research directions. 
0704.03666	AC Josephson current and supercurrent noise through one-dimensional  correlated electron systems	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Nobuhiko Yokoshi, Susumu Kurihara	 Abstract: AC Josephson effect in one-dimensional Tomonaga-Luttinger liquid (TLL) adiabatically connected to superconducting electrodes is theoretically investigated. It is found that density fluctuations due to repulsive electron-electron interactions in TLL inhibit Josephson oscillations, whereas they do not affect time-independent current part. We also show that the fluctuations reduce supercurrent noise caused by multiple Andreev reflections. This indicates that the quantum fluctuations in TLL disturb the superconducting phase coherence spreading across the junction. 
0704.03667	The Orbifolds of Permutation-Type as Physical String Systems at  Multiples of c=26 IV. Orientation Orbifolds Include Orientifolds	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:M.B.Halpern	 Abstract: In this fourth paper of the series, I clarify the somewhat mysterious relation between the large class of {\it orientation orbifolds} (with twisted open-string CFT's at $\hat c=52$) and {\it orientifolds} (with untwisted open strings at $c=26$), both of which have been associated to division by world-sheet orientation-reversing automorphisms. In particular -- following a spectral clue in the previous paper -- I show that, even as an {\it interacting string system}, a certain half-integer-moded orientation orbifold-string system is in fact equivalent to the archetypal orientifold. The subtitle of this paper, that orientation orbifolds include and generalize standard orientifolds, then follows because there are many other orientation orbifold-string systems -- with higher fractional modeing -- which are not equivalent to untwisted string systems. 
0704.03668	Dbar-N interaction from meson-exchange and quark-gluon dynamics	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:J. Haidenbauer, G. Krein, Ulf-G. Meißner, A. Sibirtsev	 Abstract: We investigate the Dbar-N interaction at low energies using a meson-exchange model supplemented with a short-distance contribution from one-gluon-exchange. The model is developed in close analogy to the meson-exchange KN interaction of the Juelich group utilizing SU(4) symmetry constraints. The main ingredients of the interaction are provided by vector meson (rho, omega) exchange and higher-order box diagrams involving D*N, D\Delta, and D*\Delta intermediate states. The short range part is assumed to receive additional contributions from genuine quark-gluon processes. The predicted cross sections for Dbar-N for excess energies up to 150 MeV are of the same order of magnitude as those for KN but with average values of around 20 mb, roughly a factor two larger than for the latter system. It is found that the omega-exchange plays a very important role. Its interference pattern with the rho-exchange, which is basically fixed by the assumed SU(4) symmetry, clearly determines the qualitative features of the Dbar-N interaction -- very similiar to what happens also for the KN system. 
0704.03669	Unified quantum invariants and their refinements for homology 3-spheres  with 2-torsion	Quantum Algebra (math.QA)	Authors:Anna Beliakova, Christian Blanchet, Thang T. Q. Le	 Abstract: For every rational homology 3-sphere with 2-torsion only we construct a unified invariant (which takes values in a certain cyclotomic completion of a polynomial ring), such that the evaluation of this invariant at any odd root of unity provides the SO(3) Witten-Reshetikhin-Turaev invariant at this root and at any even root of unity the SU(2) quantum invariant. Moreover, this unified invariant splits into a sum of the refined unified invariants dominating spin and cohomological refinements of quantum SU(2) invariants. New results on the Ohtsuki series and the integrality of quantum invariants are the main applications of our construction. 
0704.03670	Statefinder Parameters for Five-Dimensional Cosmology	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Baorong Chang, Hongya Liu, Lixin Xu, Chengwu Zhang	 Abstract: We study the statefinder parameter in the five-dimensional big bounce model, and apply it to differentiate the attractor solutions of quintessence and phantom field. It is found that the evolving trajectories of these two attractor solutions in the statefinder parameters plane are quite different, and that are different from the statefinder trajectories of other dark energy models. 
0704.03671	Quantum Hall ferromagnetism in graphene: a SU(4) bosonization approach	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:R. L. Doretto, C. Morais Smith	 Abstract: We study the quantum Hall effect in graphene at filling factors \nu = 0 and \nu = \pm, concentrating on the quantum Hall ferromagnetic regime, within a non-perturbative bosonization formalism. We start by developing a bosonization scheme for electrons with two discrete degrees of freedom (spin-1/2 and pseudospin-1/2) restricted to the lowest Landau level. Three distinct phases are considered, namely the so-called spin-pseudospin, spin, and pseudospin phases. The first corresponds to a quarter-filled (\nu =-1) while the others to a half-filled (\nu = 0) lowest Landau level. In each case, we show that the elementary neutral excitations can be treated approximately as a set of n-independent kinds of boson excitations. The boson representation of the projected electron density, the spin, pseudospin, and mixed spin-pseudospin density operators are derived. We then apply the developed formalism to the effective continuous model, which includes SU(4) symmetry breaking terms, recently proposed by Alicea and Fisher. For each quantum Hall state, an effective interacting boson model is derived and the dispersion relations of the elementary excitations are analytically calculated. We propose that the charged excitations (quantum Hall skyrmions) can be described as a coherent state of bosons. We calculate the semiclassical limit of the boson model derived from the SU(4) invariant part of the original fermionic Hamiltonian and show that it agrees with the results of Arovas and co-workers for SU(N) quantum Hall skyrmions. We briefly discuss the influence of the SU(4) symmetry breaking terms in the skyrmion energy. 
0704.03672	Hamiltonian Graphs and the Traveling Salesman Problem	General Mathematics (math.GM)	Authors:Dhananjay P. Mehendale	 Abstract: A new characterisation of Hamiltonian graphs using f-cutset matrix is proposed. A new exact polynomial time algorithm for the travelling salesman problem (TSP) based on this new characterisation is developed. We then define so called ordered weighted adjacency list for given weighted complete graph and proceed to the main result of the paper, namely, the exact algorithm based on utilisation of ordered weighted adjacency list and the simple properties that any path or circuit must satisfy. This algorithm performs checking of sub-lists, containing (p-1) entries (edge pairs) for paths and p entries (edge pairs) for circuits, chosen from ordered adjacency list in a well defined sequence to determine exactly the shortest Hamiltonian path and shortest Hamiltonian circuit in a weighted complete graph of p vertices. The procedure has intrinsic advantage of landing on the desired solution in quickest possible time and even in worst case in polynomial time. A new characterisation of shortest Hamiltonian tour for a weighted complete graph satisfying triangle inequality (i.e. for tours passing through every city on a realistic map of cities where cities can be taken as points on a Euclidean plane) is also proposed. Finally, we propose a classical algorithm for unstructured search and also three new quantum algorithms for unstructured search which exponentially speed up the searching ability in the unstructured database and discuss its effect on the NP-Complete problems. 
0704.03673	Superconducting gap variations induced by structural supermodulation in  BSCCO	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Brian M. Andersen, P. J. Hirschfeld, James A. Slezak	 Abstract: We discuss the possibility that the strain field introduced by the structural supermodulation in Bi-2212 and certain other cuprate materials may modulate the superconducting pairing interaction. We calculate the amplitude of this effect, visible in scanning tunneling spectroscopy experiments, and thereby relate a change in the local superconducting gap with the change in the local dopant displacements induced by the supermodulation. In principle, since this modulation is periodic, sufficiently accurate x-ray measurements or ab initio calculations should enable one to determine which atomic displacements enhance pairing and therefore T_c. 
0704.03674	Periodicity of certain piecewise affine planar maps	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:Shigeki Akiyama, Horst Brunotte, Attila Petho, Wolfgang Steiner (LIAFA)	 Abstract: We determine periodic and aperiodic points of certain piecewise affine maps in the Euclidean plane. Using these maps, we prove for $\lambda\in\{\frac{\pm1\pm\sqrt5}2,\pm\sqrt2,\pm\sqrt3\}$ that all integer sequences $(a_k)_{k\in\mathbb Z}$ satisfying $0\le a_{k-1}+\lambda a_k+a_{k+1}<1$ are periodic. 
0704.03675	First proper motions of thin dust filaments at the Galactic Center	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:K. Muzic, A. Eckart, R. Schoedel, L. Meyer, A. Zensus	 Abstract: Context: L'-band (3.8 micron) images of the Galactic Center show a large number of thin filaments in the mini-spiral, located west of the mini-cavity and along the inner edge of the Northern Arm. One possible mechanism that could produce such structures is the interaction of a central wind with the mini-spiral. Additionally, we identify similar features that appear to be associated with stars. Aims: We present the first proper motion measurements of the thin dust filaments observed in the central parsec around SgrA* and investigate possible mechanisms that could be responsible for the observed motions. Methods: The observations have been carried out using the NACO adaptive optics system at the ESO VLT. The images have been transformed to a common coordinate system and features of interest were extracted. Then a cross-correlation technique could be performed in order to determine the offsets between the features with respect to their position in the reference epoch. Results: We derive the proper motions of a number of filaments and 2 cometary shaped dusty sources close (in projection) to SgrA*. We show that the shape and the motion of the filaments does not agree with a purely Keplerian motion of the gas in the potential of the supermassive black hole at the position of SgrA*. Therefore, additional mechanisms must be responsible for their formation and motion. We argue that the properties of the filaments are probably related to an outflow from the disk of young mass-losing stars around SgrA*. In part, the outflow may originate from the black hole itself. We also present some evidence and theoretical considerations that the outflow may be collimated. 
0704.03676	Virtual Photon Emission from Quark-Gluon Plasma	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:S. V. Suryanarayana	 Abstract: We recently proposed an empirical approach for the Landau-Pomeranchuk-Migdal (LPM) effects in photon emission from the quark gluon plasma as a function of photon mass. This approach was based on Generalized Emission Functions (GEF) for photon emission, derived at a fixed temperature and strong coupling constant. In the present work, we have extended the LPM calculations for several temperatures and strong coupling strengths. The integral equations for (${\bf \tilde{f}(\tilde{p}_\perp)}$) and ($\tilde{g}({\bf \tilde{p}_\perp})$) are solved by the iterations method for the variable set \{$p_0,q_0,Q^2,T,\alpha_s$\}, considering bremsstrahlung and $\bf aws$ processes. We generalize the dynamical scaling variables, $x_T$, $x_L$, for bremsstrahlung and {\bf aws} processes which are now functions of variables $p_0,q_0,Q^2,T,\alpha_s$. The GEF introduced earlier, $g^b_T$, $g^a_T$, $g^b_L$, $g^a_L$, are also generalized for any temperatures and coupling strengths. From this, the imaginary part of the photon polarization tensor as a function of photon mass and energy can be calculated as a one dimensional integral over these GEF and parton distribution functions in the plasma. However, for phenomenological studies of experimental data, one needs a simple empirical formula without involving parton momentum integrations. Therefore, we present a phenomenological formula for imaginary photon polarization tensor as a function of \{$q_0,Q^2,T,\alpha_s$\} that includes bremsstrahlung and $\bf aws$ mechanisms along with LPM effects. 
0704.03677	Optimal time evolution in (non)hermitian quantum mechanics	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Pulak Ranjan Giri	 Abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author 
0704.03678	HD97048: a closer look to the disk	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Doucet, C. (1), Habart, E (2), Pantin, E. (1), Dullemond, C. (3), Lagage, P-O (1), Pinte, C. (4), Duchêne, G. (4), Ménard, F. (4) ((1) DSM/DAPNIA/service d'Astrophysique, CEA/Saclay, Gif-sur-Yvette, France, (2) Institut d'Astrophysique Spatiale (IAS), Orsay cedex, France, (3) Max-Planck-Institut fur Astronomie Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany, (4) Laboratoire d'Astrophysique de Grenoble, Grenoble, France)	 Abstract: Aims: Today, large ground-based instruments, like VISIR on the VLT, providing diffraction-limited (about 0.3 arcsec) images in the mid-infrared where strong PAH features appear enable us to see the flaring structure of the disks around Herbig Ae stars. Although great progress has been made in modelling the disk with radiative transfer models able to reproduce the spectral energy distribution (SED) of Herbig Ae stars, the constraints brought by images have not been yet fully exploited. Here, we are interested in checking if these new observational imaging constraints can be accounted for by predictions based on existing models of passive centrally irradiated hydrostatic disks made to fit the SEDs of the Herbig Ae stars. Methods: The images taken by VISIR in the 8.6 and 11.3 microns aromatic features reveal a large flaring disk around HD97048 inclined to the line of sight. In order to analyse the spatial distribution of these data, we use a disk model which includes the most up to date understanding of disk structure and physics around Herbig Ae stars with grains in thermal equilibrium in addition to transiently-heated PAHs. Results: We compare the observed spatial distribution of the PAH emission feature and the adjacent continuum emission with predictions based on existing full disk models. Both SED and spatial distribution are in very good agreement with the model predictions for common disk parameters. Conclusions: We take the general agreement between observations and predictions as a strong support for the physical pictures underlying our flared disk model. 
0704.03679	Holographic Chaplygin gas model	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:M R Setare	 Abstract: In this paper we consider a correspondence between the holographic dark energy density and Chaplygin gas energy density in FRW universe. Then we reconstruct the potential and the dynamics of the scalar field which describe the Chaplygin cosmology. 
0704.03680	Optically tuned dimensionality crossover in photocarrier-doped  SrTiO$_3$: onset of weak localization	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Y. Kozuka, Y. Hikita, T. Susaki, H. Y. Hwang	 Abstract: We report magnetotransport properties of photogenerated electrons in undoped SrTiO$_3$ single crystals under ultraviolet illumination down to 2 K. By tuning the light intensity, the steady state carrier density can be controlled, while tuning the wavelength controls the effective electronic thickness by modulating the optical penetration depth. At short wavelengths, when the sheet conductance is close to the two-dimensional Mott minimum conductivity we have observed critical behavior characteristic of weak localization. Negative magnetoresistance at low magnetic field is highly anisotropic, indicating quasi-two-dimensional electronic transport. The high mobility of photogenerated electrons in SrTiO$_3$ allows continuous tuning of the effective electronic dimensionality by photoexcitation. 
0704.03681	Critical properties of spherically symmetric accretion in a fractal  medium	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nirupam Roy, Arnab K. Ray	 Abstract: Spherically symmetric transonic accretion of a fractal medium has been studied in both the stationary and the dynamic regimes. The stationary transonic solution is greatly sensitive to infinitesimal deviations in the outer boundary condition, but the flow becomes transonic and stable, when its evolution is followed through time. The evolution towards transonicity is more pronounced for a fractal medium than what is it for a continuum. The dynamic approach also shows that there is a remarkable closeness between an equation of motion for a perturbation in the flow, and the metric of an analogue acoustic black hole. The stationary inflow solutions of a fractal medium are as much stable under the influence of linearised perturbations, as they are for the fluid continuum. 
0704.03682	IGR J16194-2810: a new symbiotic X-ray binary	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:N. Masetti, R. Landi, M.L. Pretorius, V. Sguera, A.J. Bird, M. Perri, P.A. Charles, J.A. Kennea, A. Malizia, P. Ubertini	 Abstract: We here report on the multiwavelength study which led us to the identification of X-ray source IGR J16194-2810 as a new Symbiotic X-ray Binary (SyXB), that is, a rare type of Low Mass X-ray Binary (LMXB) composed of a M-type giant and a compact object. Using the accurate X-ray position allowed by Swift/XRT data, we pinpointed the optical counterpart, a M2 III star. Besides, the combined use of the spectral information afforded by XRT and INTEGRAL/IBIS shows that the 0.5-200 keV spectrum of this source can be described with an absorbed Comptonization model, usually found in LMXBs and, in particular, in SyXBs. No long-term (days to months) periodicities are detected in the IBIS data. The time coverage afforded by XRT reveals shot-noise variability typical of accreting Galactic X-ray sources, but is not good enough to explore the presence of X-ray short-term (seconds to hours) oscillations in detail. By using the above information, we infer important parameters for this source such as its distance (about 3.7 kpc) and X-ray luminosity (about 1.4e35 erg/s in the 0.5-200 keV band), and we give a description for this system (typical of SyXBs) in which a compact object (possibly a neutron star) accretes from the wind of its M-type giant companion. We also draw some comparisons between IGR J16194-2810 and other sources belonging to this subclass, finding that this object resembles SyXBs 4U 1700+24 and 4U 1954+31. 
0704.03683	The Complexity of Weighted Boolean #CSP	Computational Complexity (cs.CC)	Authors:Martin Dyer, Leslie Ann Goldberg, Mark Jerrum	 Abstract: This paper gives a dichotomy theorem for the complexity of computing the partition function of an instance of a weighted Boolean constraint satisfaction problem. The problem is parameterised by a finite set F of non-negative functions that may be used to assign weights to the configurations (feasible solutions) of a problem instance. Classical constraint satisfaction problems correspond to the special case of 0,1-valued functions. We show that the partition function, i.e. the sum of the weights of all configurations, can be computed in polynomial time if either (1) every function in F is of ``product type'', or (2) every function in F is ``pure affine''. For every other fixed set F, computing the partition function is FP^{#P}-complete. 
0704.03684	Dynamics of Quantum Dot Nuclear Spin Polarization Controlled by a Single  Electron	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:P. Maletinsky, A. Badolato, A. Imamoglu	 Abstract: We present an experimental study of the dynamics underlying the buildup and decay of dynamical nuclear spin polarization in a single semiconductor quantum dot. Our experiment shows that the nuclei can be polarized on a time scale of a few milliseconds, while their decay dynamics depends drastically on external parameters. We show that a single electron can very efficiently depolarize the nuclear spins and discuss two processes that can cause this depolarization. Conversely, in the absence of a quantum dot electron, the lifetime of nuclear spin polarization is on the time scale of a second, most likely limited by the non-secular terms of the nuclear dipole-dipole interaction. We can further suppress this depolarization rate by 1-2 orders of magnitude by applying an external magnetic field exceeding 1 mT. 
0704.03685	Flow instabilities of magnetic flux tubes II. Longitudinal flow	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:V. Holzwarth, D. Schmitt, M. Schuessler	 Abstract: Flow-induced instabilities are relevant for the storage and dynamics of magnetic fields in stellar convection zones and possibly also in other astrophysical contexts. We continue the study started in the first paper of this series by considering the stability properties of longitudinal flows along magnetic flux tubes. A linear stability analysis was carried out to determine criteria for the onset of instability in the framework of the approximation of thin magnetic flux tubes. In the non-dissipative case, we find Kelvin-Helmholtz instability for flow velocities exceeding a critical speed that depends on the Alfv{\'e}n speed and on the ratio of the internal and external densities. Inclusion of a friction term proportional to the relative transverse velocity leads to a friction-driven instability connected with backward (or negative energy) waves. We discuss the physical nature of this instability. In the case of a stratified external medium, the Kelvin-Helmholtz instability and the friction-driven instability can set in for flow speeds significantly lower than the Alfv{\'e}n speed. Dissipative effects can excite flow-driven instability below the thresholds for the Kelvin-Helmholtz and the undulatory (Parker-type) instabilities. This may be important for magnetic flux storage in stellar convection zones and for the stability of astrophysical jets. 
0704.03686	Improving Estimates of Monotone Functions by Rearrangement	Methodology (stat.ME)	Authors:Victor Chernozhukov (MIT), Ivan Fernandez-Val (Boston University), Alfred Galichon (Harvard University)	 Abstract: Suppose that a target function is monotonic, namely, weakly increasing, and an original estimate of the target function is available, which is not weakly increasing. Many common estimation methods used in statistics produce such estimates. We show that these estimates can always be improved with no harm using rearrangement techniques: The rearrangement methods, univariate and multivariate, transform the original estimate to a monotonic estimate, and the resulting estimate is closer to the true curve in common metrics than the original estimate. We illustrate the results with a computational example and an empirical example dealing with age-height growth charts. 
0704.03687	Characterizing group $C^\ast$-algebras through their unitary groups: the  Abelian case	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Jorge Galindo, Ana-Mar'ia R'odenas	 Abstract: We study to what extent group $C^\ast$-algebras are characterized by their unitary groups. A complete characterization of which Abelian group $C^\ast$-algebras have isomorphic unitary groups is obtained. We compare these results with other unitary-related invariants of $C^\ast(\Gamma)$, such as the $K$-theoretic $K_1(C^\ast(\Gamma))$ and find that $C^\ast$-algebras of nonisomorphic torsion-free Abelian groups may have isomorphic $K_1$-groups, in sharp contrast with the well-known fact that $C^\ast(\Gamma)$ (even $\Gamma$) is characterized by the topological group structure of its unitary group when $\Gamma $ is torsion-free and Abelian. 
0704.03688	Descent Relations in Cubic Superstring Field Theory	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:I.Ya. Aref'eva, R.V. Gorbachev, P.B. Medvedev, D.V. Rychkov	 Abstract: The descent relations between string field theory (SFT) vertices are characteristic relations of the operator formulation of SFT and they provide self-consistency of this theory. The descent relations <V_2|V_1> and <V_3|V_1> in the NS fermionic string field theory in the kappa and discrete bases are established. Different regularizations and schemes of calculations are considered and relations between them are discussed. 
0704.03689	Thermodynamics of system with density- and/or temperature-dependent mass  particles	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Shaoyu Yin, Ru-Keng Su	 Abstract: The thermodynamics with medium effects expressed by the dispersion relation of the temperature and density dependent particle mass is studied. Many previous treatments have been reviewed. A new thermodynamical treatment based on the equilibrium state is suggested. Employing the quark mass density- and temperature-dependent model, the discrepancies between our treatment and others are addressed. 
0704.03690	Mittag-Leffler conditions on modules	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Lidia Angeleri-Hugel, Dolors Herbera	 Abstract: We study Mittag-Leffler conditions on modules providing relative versions of classical results by Raynaud and Gruson. We then apply our investigations to several contexts. First of all, we give a new argument for solving the Baer splitting problem. Moreover, we show that modules arising in cotorsion pairs satisfy certain Mittag-Leffler conditions. In particular, this implies that tilting modules satisfy a useful finiteness condition over their endomorphism ring. In the final section, we focus on a special tilting cotorsion pair related to the pure-semisimplicity conjecture. 
0704.03691	Electroproduction of kaons from the proton in a Regge-plus-resonance  approach	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:T. Corthals, T. Van Cauteren, P. Van Craeyveld, J. Ryckebusch, D.G. Ireland	 Abstract: We present a Regge-plus-resonance (RPR) description of the p(e,e'K^+)Y processes (Y=\Lambda,\Sigma^0) in the resonance region. The background contributions to the RPR amplitude are constrained by the high-energy p(\gamma, K^+)Y data. As a result, the number of free model parameters in the resonance region is considerably reduced compared to typical effective-Lagrangian approaches. We compare a selection of RPR model variants, originally constructed to describe $KY$ photoproduction, with the world electroproduction database. The electromagnetic form factors of the intermediate N^*s and $\Delta^*s are computed in the Bonn constituent-quark model. With this input, we find a reasonable description of the p(e,e'K^+)Y data without adding or readjusting any parameters. It is demonstrated that the electroproduction response functions are extremely useful for fine-tuning both the background and resonant contributions to the reaction dynamics. 
0704.03692	Analytically solvable model of a driven system with quenched dichotomous  disorder	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:S. I. Denisov (1 and 2), M. Kostur (1), E. S. Denisova (2), P. Hänggi (1 and 3) ((1) Universität Augsburg, Germany, (2) Sumy State University, Ukraine, (3) National University of Singapore, Republic of Singapore)	 Abstract: We perform a time-dependent study of the driven dynamics of overdamped particles which are placed in a one-dimensional, piecewise linear random potential. This set-up of spatially quenched disorder then exerts a dichotomous varying random force on the particles. We derive the path integral representation of the resulting probability density function for the position of the particles and transform this quantity of interest into the form of a Fourier integral. In doing so, the evolution of the probability density can be investigated analytically for finite times. It is demonstrated that the probability density contains both a $\delta$-singular contribution and a regular part. While the former part plays a dominant role at short times, the latter rules the behavior at large evolution times. The slow approach of the probability density to a limiting Gaussian form as time tends to infinity is elucidated in detail. 
0704.03693	Reconstruction Algebras of Type A	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:M. Wemyss	 Abstract: We introduce a new class of algebras, called reconstruction algebras, and present some of their basic properties. These non-commutative rings dictate in every way the process of resolving the Cohen-Macaulay singularities C^2/G where G is a finite small cyclic subgroup of GL(2,C). 
0704.03694	On The Spectrum of Yang-Mills Theory in 2+1 Dimensions, Analytically	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:R.G. Leigh, D. Minic, A. Yelnikov	 Abstract: We review our recent work on the glueball spectrum of pure Yang-Mills theory in 2+1 dimensions. The calculations make use of Karabali-Nair corner variables in the Hamiltonian formalism, and involve a determination of the leading form of the ground-state wavefunctional. 
0704.03695	Large scale and large period limits of symmetric calorons	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Derek Harland	 Abstract: We construct SU(2) calorons, with non-trivial holonomy, instanton charge 2 and magnetic charge 0 or -1; these calorons have two constituent monopoles, with charges (2,2) or (2,1). Our calorons are U(1)-symmetric and are constructed via the Nahm transform. They fall into distinct families which can be classified using representation theory. We consider large scale and large period limits of these calorons; in particular, the large scale limit may be a monopole, or a caloron with different topological charges. 
0704.03696	A weighted graph problem from commutative algebra	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:Peter M. Johnson	 Abstract: We give an especially simple proof of a theorem in graph theory that forms the key part of the solution to a problem in commutative algebra, on how to characterize the integral closure of a polynomial ring generated by quadratic monomials. 
0704.03697	Quantification of discreteness effects in cosmological N-body  simulations: II. Evolution up to shell crossing	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Michael Joyce, Bruno Marcos	 Abstract: We apply a recently developed perturbative formalism which describes the evolution under their self-gravity of particles displaced from a perfect lattice to quantify precisely, up to shell crossing, the effects of discreteness in dissipationless cosmological N-body simulations. We give simple expressions, explicitly dependent on the particle density, for the evolution of power in each mode as a function of red-shift. For typical starting red-shifts the effect of finite particle number is to {\it slow down} slightly the growth of power compared to that in the fluid limit (e.g. by about ten percent at half the Nyquist frequency), and to induce also dispersion in the growth as a function of direction at a comparable level. In the limit that the initial red-shift tends to infinity, at fixed particle density, the evolution in fact diverges from that in the fluid limit (described by the Zeldovich approximation). Contrary to widely held belief, this means that a simulation started at a red-shift much higher than the red-shift of shell crossing actually gives a worse, rather than a better, result. We also study how these effects are modified when there is a small-scale regularization of the gravitational force. We show that such a smoothing may reduce the anisotropy of the discreteness effects, but it then {\it increases} their average effect. This behaviour illustrates the fact that the discreteness effects described here are distinct from those usually considered in this context, due to two-body collisions. Indeed the characteristic time for divergence from the collisionless limit is proportional to $N^{2/3}$, rather than $N/ \log N$ in the latter case. 
0704.03698	Demazure embeddings are smooth	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Ivan V. Losev	 Abstract: We prove Brion's conjecture stating that the closure of the orbit of a self-normalizing spherical subalgebra in the corresponding Grassmanian is smooth 
0704.03699	Wigner functions, coherent states, one-dimensional marginal  probabilities and uncertainty structures of Landau levels	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:B. Demircioglu, A. Vercin	 Abstract: Following an approach based on generating function method phase space characteristics of Landau system are studied in the autonomous framework of deformation quantization. Coherent state property of generating functions is established and marginal probability densities along canonical coordinate lines are derived. Well defined analogs of inner product, Cauchy-Bunyakowsy-Schwarz inequality and state functional have been defined in phase space and they have been used in analyzing the uncertainty structures. The general form of the uncertainty relation for two real-valued functions is derived and uncertainty products are computed in states described by Wigner functions. Minimum uncertainty state property of the standard coherent states is presented and uncertainty structures in the case of phase space generalized coherent states are analyzed. 
0704.03700	Constrained flow around a magnetic obstacle	Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)	Authors:E.V. Votyakov, E. Zienicke, Yu. Kolesnikov	 Abstract: Many practical applications exploit an external local magnetic field -- magnetic obstacle -- as an essential part of their constructions. Recently, it has been demonstrated that the flow of an electrically conducting fluid influenced by an external field can show several kinds of recirculation. The present paper reports a 3D numerical study whose some results are compared with an experiment about such a flow in a rectangular duct. 
0704.03701	Comment on ``Enhanced transmission of light through a gold film due to  excitation of standing surface-plasmon Bloch waves"	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:J. Weiner	 Abstract: The purpose of this comment is first to correct a misapprehension of the role played by composite wave diffraction on surface-wave generation at subwavelength structures and second to point out that periodic Bloch structures are unnecessary for the efficient production of the surface plasmon polariton (SPP) guided mode either as traveling or standing waves. Guided surface waves originate from simple slit or groove edges illuminated under normal incidence, and one-dimensional (1-D) surface cavities from these standing waves are easily realized. 
0704.03702	Statistical mechanics of complex networks	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:B. Waclaw	 Abstract: The science of complex networks is a new interdisciplinary branch of science which has arisen recently on the interface of physics, biology, social and computer sciences, and others. Its main goal is to discover general laws governing the creation and growth as well as processes taking place on networks, like e.g. the Internet, transportation or neural networks. It turned out that most real-world networks cannot be simply reduced to a compound of some individual components. Fortunately, the statistical mechanics, being one of pillars of modern physics, provides us with a very powerful set of tools and methods for describing and understanding these systems. In this thesis, we would like to present a consistent approach to complex networks based on statistical mechanics, with the central role played by the concept of statistical ensemble of networks. We show how to construct such a theory and present some practical problems where it can be applied. Among them, we pay attention to the problem of finite-size corrections and the dynamics of a simple model of mass transport on networks. 
0704.03703	Thin Spectrum States in Superconductors	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Jasper van Wezel, Jeroen van den Brink	 Abstract: We show that finite size superconductors have a spectrum of states at extremely low energy, i.e. inside the superconducting gap. The presence of this {\it thin spectrum} is a generic feature and related to the fact that in a superconductor the global phase rotation symmetry is spontaneously broken. For a strong coupling superconductor we find the spectrum by exactly solving the Lieb-Mattis type Hamiltonian onto which the problem maps. One of the physical consequences of the presence of thin states is that they cause quantum decoherence in superconducting qubits of finite extent. 
0704.03704	Multimodal nested sampling: an efficient and robust alternative to MCMC  methods for astronomical data analysis	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Farhan Feroz, M.P. Hobson	 Abstract: In performing a Bayesian analysis of astronomical data, two difficult problems often emerge. First, in estimating the parameters of some model for the data, the resulting posterior distribution may be multimodal or exhibit pronounced (curving) degeneracies, which can cause problems for traditional MCMC sampling methods. Second, in selecting between a set of competing models, calculation of the Bayesian evidence for each model is computationally expensive. The nested sampling method introduced by Skilling (2004), has greatly reduced the computational expense of calculating evidences and also produces posterior inferences as a by-product. This method has been applied successfully in cosmological applications by Mukherjee et al. (2006), but their implementation was efficient only for unimodal distributions without pronounced degeneracies. Shaw et al. (2007), recently introduced a clustered nested sampling method which is significantly more efficient in sampling from multimodal posteriors and also determines the expectation and variance of the final evidence from a single run of the algorithm, hence providing a further increase in efficiency. In this paper, we build on the work of Shaw et al. and present three new methods for sampling and evidence evaluation from distributions that may contain multiple modes and significant degeneracies; we also present an even more efficient technique for estimating the uncertainty on the evaluated evidence. These methods lead to a further substantial improvement in sampling efficiency and robustness, and are applied to toy problems to demonstrate the accuracy and economy of the evidence calculation and parameter estimation. Finally, we discuss the use of these methods in performing Bayesian object detection in astronomical datasets. 
0704.03705	QMC: A Model Checker for Quantum Systems	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Simon Gay, Rajagopal Nagarajan, Nikolaos Papanikolaou	 Abstract: We introduce a model-checking tool intended specially for the analysis of quantum information protocols. The tool incorporates an efficient representation of a certain class of quantum circuits, namely those expressible in the so-called stabiliser formalism. Models of protocols are described using a simple, imperative style simulation language which includes commands for the unitary operators in the Clifford group as well as classical integer and boolean variables. Formulas for verification are expressed using a subset of quantum computational tree logic (QCTL). The model-checking procedure treats quantum measurements as the source of non-determinism, leading to multiple protocol runs, one for each outcome. Verification is performed for each run. 
0704.03706	A multivariate approach to heavy flavour tagging with cascade training	Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)	Authors:J. Bastos, Y. Liu	 Abstract: This paper compares the performance of artificial neural networks and boosted decision trees, with and without cascade training, for tagging b-jets in a collider experiment. It is shown, using a Monte Carlo simulation of $WH \to l\nu q\bar{q}$ events, that for a b-tagging efficiency of 50%, the light jet rejection power given by boosted decision trees without cascade training is about 55% higher than that given by artificial neural networks. The cascade training technique can improve the performance of boosted decision trees and artificial neural networks at this b-tagging efficiency level by about 35% and 80% respectively. We conclude that the cascade trained boosted decision trees method is the most promising technique for tagging heavy flavours at collider experiments. 
0704.03707	Softening of the equation of state of matter at large densities and  temperatures: chiral symmetry restoration vs. quark deconfinement	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Luca Bonanno (Dip.Fisica Univ.Ferrara and INFN sez Ferrara), Alessandro Drago (Dip.Fisica Univ.Ferrara and INFN sez Ferrara), Andrea Lavagno (Politecnico di Torino and INFN sez. Torino)	 Abstract: We discuss two models for describing the behavior of matter at large densities and intermediate temperatures. In both models a softening of the equation of state takes place due to the appearance of new degrees of freedom. The first is a hadronic model in which the softening is due to chiral symmetry restoration. In the second model the softening is associated with the formation of clusters of quarks in the mixed phase. We show that both models allow a significant softening but, in the first case the bulk modulus is mainly dependent on the density, while in the mixed phase model it also strongly depends on the temperature. We also show that the bulk modulus is not vanishing in the mixed phase due to the presence of two conserved charges, the baryon and the isospin one. Only in a small region of densities and temperatures the incompressibility becomes extremely small. Finally we compare our results with recent analysis of heavy ion collisions at intermediate energies. 
0704.03708	Network statistics on early English Syntax: Structural criteria	Computation and Language (cs.CL)	Authors:Bernat Corominas-Murtra	 Abstract: This paper includes a reflection on the role of networks in the study of English language acquisition, as well as a collection of practical criteria to annotate free-speech corpora from children utterances. At the theoretical level, the main claim of this paper is that syntactic networks should be interpreted as the outcome of the use of the syntactic machinery. Thus, the intrinsic features of such machinery are not accessible directly from (known) network properties. Rather, what one can see are the global patterns of its use and, thus, a global view of the power and organization of the underlying grammar. Taking a look into more practical issues, the paper examines how to build a net from the projection of syntactic relations. Recall that, as opposed to adult grammars, early-child language has not a well-defined concept of structure. To overcome such difficulty, we develop a set of systematic criteria assuming constituency hierarchy and a grammar based on lexico-thematic relations. At the end, what we obtain is a well defined corpora annotation that enables us i) to perform statistics on the size of structures and ii) to build a network from syntactic relations over which we can perform the standard measures of complexity. We also provide a detailed example. 
0704.03709	The end of the "Empty Field" epoch in optical identifications	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Lipovka, N. Lipovka	 Abstract: In order to obtain more comprehensive information about an celestial object, the radio image must be identified with the optical one. Many years the identification process is carried out with the coordinate coincidence criteria, which leads to abundant misidentifications and "empty field" in optics for the radio sources. For this reason significant part of radio sources do not have identifications in optic. In present paper we consider the radio refraction in the Galaxy, which significantly changes the coordinates of radio sources if compared with the optical one. By taking into account the radio refraction, the major number of the radio sources can be successfully identified with the optical objects. 
0704.03710	Blow-up of the hyperbolic Burgers equation	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Carlos Escudero	 Abstract: The memory effects on microscopic kinetic systems have been sometimes modelled by means of the introduction of second order time derivatives in the macroscopic hydrodynamic equations. One prototypical example is the hyperbolic modification of the Burgers equation, that has been introduced to clarify the interplay of hyperbolicity and nonlinear hydrodynamic evolution. Previous studies suggested the finite time blow-up of this equation, and here we present a rigorous proof of this fact. 
0704.03711	Maximal C*-algebras of quotients and injective envelopes of C*-algebras	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Pere Ara, Martin Mathieu	 Abstract: A new C*-enlargement of a C*-algebra $A$ nested between the local multiplier algebra $M_{\text{loc}}(A)$ of $A$ and its injective envelope $I(A)$ is introduced. Various aspects of this maximal C*-algebra of quotients, $Q_{\text{max}}(A)$, are studied, notably in the setting of AW*-algebras. As a by-product we obtain a new example of a type I C*-algebra $A$ such that $M_{\text{loc}}(M_{\text{loc}}(A))\ne M_{\text{loc}}(A)$. 
0704.03712	Nuclear p_t broadening at HERMES	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:Yves Van Haarlem, Anton Jgoun, Pasquale Di Nezza	 Abstract: The first direct measurement of p_t-broadening effects in cold nuclear matter has been studied as a function of several kinematic variables for different hadron types. The data have been accumulated by the HERMES experiment at DESY, in which the HERA 27.6 GeV lepton beam scattered off several nuclear gas targets. 
0704.03713	Shear-strain-induced Spatially Varying Super-lattice Structures on  Graphite studied by STM	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:S. K. Choudhary, A. K. Gupta	 Abstract: We report on the Scanning Tunneling Microscope (STM) observation of linear fringes together with spatially varying super-lattice structures on (0001) graphite (HOPG) surface. The structure, present in a region of a layer bounded by two straight carbon fibers, varies from a hexagonal lattice of 6nm periodicity to nearly a square lattice of 13nm periodicity. It then changes into a one-dimensional (1-D) fringe-like pattern before relaxing into a pattern-free region. We attribute this surface structure to a shear strain giving rise to a spatially varying rotation of the affected graphite layer relative to the bulk substrate. We propose a simple method to understand these moire patterns by looking at the fixed and rotated lattices in the Fourier transformed k-space. Using this approach we can reproduce the spatially varying 2-D lattice as well as the 1-D fringes by simulation. The 1-D fringes are found to result from a particular spatial dependence of the rotation angle. 
0704.03714	Second discontinuity in the specific heat of two-phase superconductors	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:E. Di Grezia, S. Esposito, G. Salesi	 Abstract: The recently proposed theoretical model of superconductors endowed with two distinct superconducting phases and critical temperatures is further analyzed by introducing two distinct order parameters, described by two scalar fields which condensate at different temperatures. We find some deviations in basic thermodynamical quantities with respect to the Ginzburg-Landau one-phase superconductors. In particular, by contrast to the usual case where only one jump in specific heat takes place at the normal-superconductor transition temperature, we actually predict an additional discontinuity for C_V when passing from a superconducting phase to the other one. 
0704.03715	Efficient model chemistries for peptides. I. Split-valence Gaussian  basis sets and the heterolevel approximation in RHF and MP2	Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)	Authors:Pablo Echenique, J. L. Alonso	 Abstract: We present an exhaustive study of more than 250 ab initio potential energy surfaces (PESs) of the model dipeptide HCO-L-Ala-NH2. The model chemistries (MCs) used are constructed as homo- and heterolevels involving possibly different RHF and MP2 calculations for the geometry and the energy. The basis sets used belong to a sample of 39 selected representants from Pople's split-valence families, ranging from the small 3-21G to the large 6-311++G(2df,2pd). The reference PES to which the rest are compared is the MP2/6-311++G(2df,2pd) homolevel, which, as far as we are aware, is the more accurate PES of a dipeptide in the literature. The aim of the study presented is twofold: On the one hand, the evaluation of the influence of polarization and diffuse functions in the basis set, distinguishing between those placed at 1st-row atoms and those placed at hydrogens, as well as the effect of different contraction and valence splitting schemes. On the other hand, the investigation of the heterolevel assumption, which is defined here to be that which states that heterolevel MCs are more efficient than homolevel MCs. The heterolevel approximation is very commonly used in the literature, but it is seldom checked. As far as we know, the only tests for peptides or related systems, have been performed using a small number of conformers, and this is the first time that this potentially very economical approximation is tested in full PESs. In order to achieve these goals, all data sets have been compared and analyzed in a way which captures the nearness concept in the space of MCs. 
0704.03716	Existence and Number of Solutions of Diophantine Quadratic Equations  with Two Unknowns in $Z$ and $N$	General Mathematics (math.GM)	Authors:Florentin Smarandache	 Abstract: In this short note we study the existence and number of solutions in the set of integers ($Z$) and in the set of natural numbers ($N$) of Diopahntine Equations of second degree with two variables of the general form $ax^2-by^2=c$. 
0704.03717	Ion condensation on charged patterned surfaces	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Yuri S. Velichko, Francisco J. Solis, Sharon M. Loverde, Monica Olvera de la Cruz	 Abstract: We study ion condensation onto a patterned surface of alternating charges. The competition between self-energy and ion-surface interactions leads to the formation of ionic crystalline structures at low temperatures. We consider different arrangements of underlying ionic crystals, including single ion adsorption, as well as the formation of dipoles at the interface between charged domains. Molecular dynamic simulation illustrates existence of single and mixed phases. Our results contribute to understanding pattern recognition, and molecular separation and synthesis near patterned surfaces. 
0704.03718	Gamma-Ray Burst Afterglows as Probes of Environment and Blastwave  Physics II: the Distribution of p and Structure of the Circumburst Medium	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:R. L. C. Starling (1,2), A. J. van der Horst (2), E. Rol (1), R. A. M. J. Wijers (2), C. Kouveliotou (3), K. Wiersema (2), P. A. Curran (2), P. Weltevrede (2) ((1) Leicester, (2) Amsterdam, (3) NASA/MSFC)	 Abstract: We constrain blastwave parameters and the circumburst media of a subsample of ten BeppoSAX Gamma-Ray Bursts. For this sample we derive the values of the injected electron energy distribution index, p, and the density structure index of the circumburst medium, k, from simultaneous spectral fits to their X-ray, optical and nIR afterglow data. The spectral fits have been done in count space and include the effects of metallicity, and are compared with the previously reported optical and X-ray temporal behaviour. Using the blastwave model and some assumptions which include on-axis viewing and standard jet structure, constant blastwave energy and no evolution of the microphysical parameters, we find a mean value of p for the sample as a whole of 2.04 +0.02/-0.03. A statistical analysis of the distribution demonstrates that the p values in this sample are inconsistent with a single universal value for p at the 3-sigma level or greater, which has significant implications for particle acceleration models. This approach provides us with a measured distribution of circumburst density structures rather than considering only the cases of k=0 (homogeneous) and k=2 (wind-like). We find five GRBs for which k can be well constrained, and in four of these cases the circumburst medium is clearly wind-like. The fifth source has a value of 0<k<1, consistent with a homogeneous circumburst medium. 
0704.03719	A holographic proof of the strong subadditivity of entanglement entropy	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Matthew Headrick, Tadashi Takayanagi	 Abstract: When a quantum system is divided into subsystems, their entanglement entropies are subject to an inequality known as "strong subadditivity". For a field theory this inequality can be stated as follows: given any two regions of space $A$ and $B$, $S(A) + S(B) \ge S(A \cup B) + S(A \cap B)$. Recently, a method has been found for computing entanglement entropies in any field theory for which there is a holographically dual gravity theory. In this note we give a simple geometrical proof of strong subadditivity employing this holographic prescription. 
0704.03720	Multiparameter Riesz Commutators	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Michael Lacey, Stefanie Petermichl, Jill Pipher, Brett Wick	 Abstract: It is shown that product BMO of Chang and Fefferman, defined on the product of Euclidean spaces can be characterized by the multiparameter commutators of Riesz transforms. This extends a classical one-parameter result of Coifman, Rochberg, and Weiss, and at the same time extends the work of Lacey and Ferguson and Lacey and Terwilleger on multiparameter commutators with Hilbert transforms. The method of proof requires the real-variable methods throughout, which is new in the multi-parameter context. 
0704.03721	Cosmic Rays: The Second Knee and Beyond	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Douglas R Bergman, John W. Belz	 Abstract: We conduct a review of experimental results on Ultra-High Energy Cosmic Rays (UHECR's) including measurements of the features of the spectrum, the composition of the primary particle flux and the search for anisotropy in event arrival direction. We find that while there is a general consensus on the features in the spectrum -- the Second Knee, the Ankle, and (to a lesser extent) the GZK Cutoff -- there is little consensus on the composition of the primaries that accompany these features. This lack of consensus on the composition makes interpretation of the agreed upon features problematic. There is also little direct evidence about potential sources of UHECRs, as early reports of arrival direction anisotropies have not been confirmed in independent measurements. 
0704.03722	Direct Measurement of the Radius and Density of the Transiting Exoplanet  HD 189733B with the CHARA Array	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:E. K. Baines, G. T. van Belle, T. A. ten Brummelaar, H. A. McAlister, M. Swain, N. H. Turner, L. Sturmann, J. Sturmann	 Abstract: We have measured the angular diameter of the transiting extrasolar planet host star HD 189733 using the CHARA O/IR interferometric array. Combining our new angular diameter of 0.377+/-0.024 mas with the Hipparcos parallax leads to a linear radius for the host star of 0.779+/-0.052 Rsol and a radius for the planet of 1.19+/-0.08 RJup. Adopting the mass of the planet as derived by its discoverers, we derive a mean density of the planet of 0.91+/-0.18 g cm-3. This is the first determination of the diameter of an extrasolar planet through purely direct means. 
0704.03723	Dyson Indices and Hilbert-Schmidt Separability Functions and  Probabilities	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Paul B. Slater	 Abstract: A confluence of numerical and theoretical results leads us to conjecture that the Hilbert-Schmidt separability probabilities of the 15- and 9-dimensional convex sets of complex and real two-qubit states (representable by 4 x 4 density matrices rho) are 8/33 and 8/17, respectively. Central to our reasoning are the modifications of two ansatze, recently advanced (quant-ph/0609006), involving incomplete beta functions B_{nu}(a,b), where nu= (rho_{11} rho_{44})/(rho_{22} rho_{33}). We, now, set the separability function S_{real}(nu) propto B_{nu}(nu,1/2},2) =(2/3) (3-nu) sqrt{nu}. Then, in the complex case -- conforming to a pattern we find, manifesting the Dyson indices (1, 2, 4) of random matrix theory-- we take S_{complex}(nu) propto S_{real}^{2} (nu). We also investigate the real and complex qubit-qutrit cases. Now, there are two Bloore ratio variables, nu_{1}= (rho_{11} rho_{55})(rho_{22} rho_{44}), nu_{2}= (rho_{22} rho_{66})(rho_{33} rho_{55}), but they appear to remarkably coalesce into the product, eta = nu_1 nu_2 = rho_{11} \rho_{66}}{\rho_{33} \rho_{44}}, so that the real and complex separability functions are again univariate in nature. 
0704.03724	A Model of Late Long-Term Potentiation Simulates Aspects of Memory  Maintenance	Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC)	Authors:Paul Smolen	 Abstract: Late long-term potentiation (L-LTP) appears essential for the formation of long-term memory, with memories at least partly encoded by patterns of strengthened synapses. How memories are preserved for months or years, despite molecular turnover, is not well understood. Ongoing recurrent neuronal activity, during memory recall or during sleep, has been hypothesized to preferentially potentiate strong synapses, preserving memories. This hypothesis has not been evaluated in the context of a mathematical model representing biochemical pathways important for L-LTP. I incorporated ongoing activity into two such models: a reduced model that represents some of the essential biochemical processes, and a more detailed published model. The reduced model represents synaptic tagging and gene induction intuitively, and the detailed model adds activation of essential kinases by Ca. Ongoing activity was modeled as continual brief elevations of [Ca]. In each model, two stable states of synaptic weight resulted. Positive feedback between synaptic weight and the amplitude of ongoing Ca transients underlies this bistability. A tetanic or theta-burst stimulus switches a model synapse from a low weight to a high weight stabilized by ongoing activity. Bistability was robust to parameter variations. Simulations illustrated that prolonged decreased activity reset synapses to low weights, suggesting a plausible forgetting mechanism. However, episodic activity with shorter inactive intervals maintained strong synapses. Both models support experimental predictions. Tests of these predictions are expected to further understanding of how neuronal activity is coupled to maintenance of synaptic strength. 
0704.03725	Codazzi spinors and globally hyperbolic manifolds with special holonomy	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Helga Baum, Olaf Müller	 Abstract: In this paper we examine the structure of Riemannian manifolds with a special kind of Codazzi tensors. We use them to construct globally hyperbolic Lorentzian manifolds with complete Cauchy hypersurfaces for any weakly irreducible holonomy representation with parallel spinors, i.e. with a holonomy group which is a semidirect product between $\R^{n-2}$ and one of $\1, SU(k), Sp(1), G_2$ and $Spin(7)$. 
0704.03726	Pion-mass dependence of three-nucleon observables	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:H.-W. Hammer, D.R. Phillips, L. Platter	 Abstract: We use an effective field theory (EFT) which contains only short-range interactions to study the dependence of a variety of three-nucleon observables on the pion mass. The pion-mass dependence of input quantities in our ``pionless'' EFT is obtained from a recent chiral EFT calculation. To the order we work at, these quantities are the 1S0 scattering length and effective range, the deuteron binding energy, the 3S1 effective range, and the binding energy of one three-nucleon bound state. The chiral EFT input we use has the inverse 3S1 and 1S0 scattering lengths vanishing at mpi_c=197.8577 MeV. At this ``critical'' pion mass, the triton has infinitely many excited states with an accumulation point at the three-nucleon threshold. We compute the binding energies of these states up to next-to-next-to-leading order in the pionless EFT and study the convergence pattern of the EFT in the vicinity of the critical pion mass. Furthermore, we use the pionless EFT to predict how doublet and quartet nd scattering lengths depend on mpi in the region between the physical pion mass and mpi=mpi_c. 
0704.03727	Self-similar and self-affine sets; measure of the intersection of two  copies	General Mathematics (math.GM)	Authors:Márton Elekes, Tamás Keleti, András Máthé	 Abstract: Let K be a self-similar or self-affine set in R^d, let \mu be a self-similar or self-affine measure on it, and let G be the group of affine maps, similitudes, isometries or translations of R^d. Under various assumptions (such as separation conditions or we assume that the transformations are small perturbations or that K is a so called Sierpinski sponge) we prove theorems of the following types, which are closely related to each other; Non-stability: There exists a constant c<1 such that for every g\in G we have either \mu(K\cap g(K)) <c \mu(K) or K\subset g(K). Measure and topology: For every g\in G we have \mu(K\cap g(K)) > 0 \iff int_K (K\cap g(K)) is nonempty (where int_K is interior relative to K). Extension: The measure \mu has a G-invariant extension to R^d. Moreover, in many situations we characterize those g's for which \mu(K\cap g(K) > 0, and we also get results about those $g$'s for which $g(K)\su K$ or $g(K)\supset K$ holds. 
0704.03728	Quantum Effects in Black Holes from the Schwarzschild Black String?	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Alessandro Fabbri, Giovanni Paolo Procopio	 Abstract: The holographic conjecture for black holes localized on a 3-brane in Randall-Sundrum braneworld models RS2 predicts the existence of a classical 5D time dependent solution dual to a 4D evaporating black hole. After briefly reviewing recent criticism and presenting some difficulties in the holographic interpretation of the Gregory-Laflamme instability, we simulate some basic features of such a solution by studying null geodesics of the Schwarzschild black string, in particular those propagating nontrivially in the bulk, and using holographic arguments. 
0704.03729	Divergence at low bias and down-mixing of the current noise in a  diffusive superconductor-normal metal-superconductor junction	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Elsa Lhotel (LATEQS), Olivier Coupiac (LATEQS), François Lefloch (LATEQS), Hervé Courtois (NEEL), Marc Sanquer (LATEQS)	 Abstract: We present current noise measurements in a long diffusive superconductor-normal-metal-superconductor junction in the low voltage regime, in which transport can be partially described in terms of coherent multiple Andreev reflections. We show that, when decreasing voltage, the current noise exhibits a strong divergence together with a broad peak. We ascribe this peak to the mixing between the ac- Josephson current and the noise of the junction itself. We show that the junction noise corresponds to the thermal noise of a nonlinear resistor 4kBT=R with R V = I V and no adjustable parameters. 
0704.03730	Network Growth with Preferential Attachment for High Indegree and Low  Outdegree	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Volkan Sevim, Per Arne Rikvold	 Abstract: We study the growth of a directed transportation network, such as a food web, in which links carry resources. We propose a growth process in which new nodes (or species) preferentially attach to existing nodes with high indegree (in food-web language, number of prey) and low outdegree (or number of predators). This scheme, which we call inverse preferential attachment, is intended to maximize the amount of resources available to each new node. We show that the outdegree (predator) distribution decays at least exponentially fast for large outdegree and is continuously tunable between an exponential distribution and a delta function. The indegree (prey) distribution is poissonian in the large-network limit. 
0704.03731	Catalan's intervals and realizers of triangulations	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Olivier Bernardi (CRM), Nicolas Bonichon (LaBRI)	 Abstract: The Stanley lattice, Tamari lattice and Kreweras lattice are three remarkable orders defined on the set of Catalan objects of a given size. These lattices are ordered by inclusion: the Stanley lattice is an extension of the Tamari lattice which is an extension of the Kreweras lattice. The Stanley order can be defined on the set of Dyck paths of size $n$ as the relation of \emph{being above}. Hence, intervals in the Stanley lattice are pairs of non-crossing Dyck paths. In a former article, the second author defined a bijection $\Phi$ between pairs of non-crossing Dyck paths and the realizers of triangulations (or Schnyder woods). We give a simpler description of the bijection $\Phi$. Then, we study the restriction of $\Phi$ to Tamari's and Kreweras' intervals. We prove that $\Phi$ induces a bijection between Tamari intervals and minimal realizers. This gives a bijection between Tamari intervals and triangulations. We also prove that $\Phi$ induces a bijection between Kreweras intervals and the (unique) realizers of stack triangulations. Thus, $\Phi$ induces a bijection between Kreweras intervals and stack triangulations which are known to be in bijection with ternary trees. 
0704.03732	Absorption spectroscopy of individual single-walled carbon nanotubes	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Stéphane Berciaud (CPMOH), Laurent Cognet (CPMOH), Philippe Poulin (CRPP), R. Bruce Weisman, Brahim Lounis (CPMOH)	 Abstract: Current methods for producing single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) lead to heterogeneous samples containing mixtures of metallic and semiconducting species with a variety of lengths and defects. Optical detection at the single nanotube level should thus offer the possibility to examine these heterogeneities provided that both SWNT species are equally well detected. Here, we used photothermal heterodyne detection to record absorption images and spectra of individual SWNTs. Because this photothermal method relies only on light absorption, it readily detects metallic nanotubes as well as the emissive semiconducting species. The first and second optical transitions in individual semicontucting nanotubes have been probed. Comparison between the emission and absorption spectra of the lowest-lying optical transition reveal mainly small Stokes shifts. Side bands in the near-infrared absorption spectra are observed and assigned to exciton-phonon bound states. No such sidebands are detected around the lowest transition of metallic nanotubes. 
0704.03733	Torsion units in integral group ring of the Mathieu simple group M22	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:V.A. Bovdi, A.B. Konovalov, S. Linton	 Abstract: We investigate the possible character values of torsion units of the normalized unit group of the integral group ring of Mathieu sporadic group $M_{22}$. We confirm the Kimmerle conjecture on prime graphs for this group and specify the partial augmentations for possible counterexamples to the stronger Zassenhaus conjecture. 
0704.03734	Methanofullerene Elongated Nanostructure Formation for Enhanced Organic  Solar Cells	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:M. Reyes-Reyes, R. Lopez-Sandoval, J. Arenas-Alatorre, R. Garibay-Alonso, D. L. Carroll, A. Lastras-Martinez	 Abstract: Using transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and Z-contrast imaging we have demonstrated elongated nanostructure formation of fullerene derivative [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) within an organic host through annealing. The annealing provides an enhanced mobility of the PCBM molecules and, with good initial dispersion, allows for the formation of exaggerated grain growth within the polymer host. We have assembled these nanostructures within the regioregular conjugated polymer poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT). This PCBM elongated nanostructure formation maybe responsible for the very high efficiencies observed, at very low loadings of PCBM (1:0.6, polymer to PCBM), in annealed photovoltaics. Moreover, our high resolution TEM and electron energy loss spectroscopy studies clearly show that the PCBM crystals remain crystalline and are unaffected by the 200-keV electron beam 
0704.03735	Radiatively broken symmetries of nonhierarchical neutrinos	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Amol Dighe (Tata Inst.), Srubabati Goswami (Harish-Chandra Res. Inst.), Probir Roy (Tata Inst.)	 Abstract: Symmetry-based ideas, such as the quark-lepton complementarity (QLC) principle and the tri-bimaximal mixing (TBM) scheme, have been proposed to explain the observed mixing pattern of neutrinos. We argue that such symmetry relations need to be imposed at a high scale $\Lambda \sim 10^{12}$ GeV characterizing the large masses of right-handed neutrinos required to implement the seesaw mechanism. For nonhierarchical neutrinos, renormalisation group evolution down to a laboratory energy scale $\lambda \sim 10^3$ GeV tends to radiatively break these symmetries at a significant level and spoil the mixing pattern predicted by them. However, for Majorana neutrinos, suitable constraints on the extra phases $\alpha_{2,3}$ enable the retention of those high scale mixing patterns at laboratory energies. We examine this issue within the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model (MSSM) and demonstrate the fact posited above for two versions of QLC and two versions of TBM. The appropriate constraints are worked out for all these four cases. Specifically, a preference for $\alpha_2 \approx \pi$ (i.e. $m_1 \approx -m_2$) emerges in each case. We also show how a future accurate measurement of $\theta_{13}$ may enable some discrimination among these four cases in spite of renormalization group evolution. 
0704.03736	Alignment and signed-intensity anomalies in WMAP data	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. Vielva, Y. Wiaux, E. Martinez-Gonzalez, P. Vandergheynst	 Abstract: Significant alignment and signed-intensity anomalies of local features of the cosmic microwave background (CMB) are detected on the three-year WMAP data, through a decomposition of the signal with steerable wavelets on the sphere. Firstly, an alignment analysis identifies two mean preferred planes in the sky, both with normal axes close to the CMB dipole axis. The first plane is defined by the directions toward which local CMB features are anomalously aligned. A mean preferred axis is also identified in this plane, located very close to the ecliptic poles axis. The second plane is defined by the directions anomalously avoided by local CMB features. This alignment anomaly provides further insight on recent results (Wiaux et al. 2006). Secondly, a signed-intensity analysis identifies three mean preferred directions in the southern galactic hemisphere with anomalously high or low temperature of local CMB features: a cold spot essentially identified with a known cold spot (Vielva et al. 2004), a second cold spot lying very close to the southern end of the CMB dipole axis, and a hot spot lying close to the southern end of the ecliptic poles axis. In both analyses, the anomalies are observed at wavelet scales corresponding to angular sizes around 10 degress on the celestial sphere, with global significance levels around 1%. Further investigation reveals that the alignment and signed-intensity anomalies are only very partially related. Instrumental noise, foreground emissions, as well as some form of other systematics, are strongly rejected as possible origins of the detections. An explanation might still be envisaged in terms of a global violation of the isotropy of the Universe, inducing an intrinsic statistical anisotropy of the CMB. 
0704.03737	Contractible Lie groups over local fields	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:Helge Glockner	 Abstract: Let G be a Lie group over a local field of positive characteristic which admits a contractive automorphism f (i.e., the forward iterates f^n(x) of each group element x converge to the neutral element 1). We show that then G is a torsion group of finite exponent and nilpotent. We also obtain results concerning the interplay between contractive automorphisms of Lie groups over local fields, contractive automorphisms of their Lie algebras, and positive gradations thereon. Some of the results even extend to Lie groups over arbitrary complete ultrametric fields. 
0704.03738	The square gradient model in a two-phase mixture I. \\Equilibrium  properties	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:K. S. Glavatskiy, D. Bedeaux	 Abstract: In order to describe a nonuniform equilibrium mixture with an interface between two coexisting phases it is necessary to consider contributions to the Helmholtz energy which depend on the gradients of for instance the density. Van der Waals \cite{vdW/sg, vdW/translation} was the first to introduce such a term, which is very important in the interfacial region for a one-component system. Cahn & Hilliard \cite{cahnhilliard/fens/I} extended this analysis to a binary mixture by introducing gradient terms of the mol fraction. We give an systematic extension of the gradient theory to three-dimensional multi-component systems. 
0704.03739	Luminous Red Galaxy Clustering at z~0.7 - First Results using AAOmega	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Nicholas P. Ross, T. Shanks, Russell D. Cannon, D.A. Wake, R.G. Sharp, S.M. Croom, John A. Peacock	 Abstract: We report on the AAT-AAOmega LRG Pilot observing run to establish the feasibility of a large spectroscopic survey using the new AAOmega instrument. We have selected Luminous Red Galaxies (LRGs) using single epoch SDSS riz-photometry to i<20.5 and z<20.2. We have observed in 3 fields including the COSMOS field and the COMBO-17 S11 field, obtaining a sample of ~600 redshift z>=0.5 LRGs. Exposure times varied from 1 - 4 hours to determine the minimum exposure for AAOmega to make an essentially complete LRG redshift survey in average conditions. We show that LRG redshifts to i<20.5 can measured in approximately 1.5hr exposures and present comparisons with 2SLAQ and COMBO-17 (photo-)redshifts. Crucially, the riz selection coupled with the 3-4 times improved AAOmega throughput is shown to extend the LRG mean redshift from z=0.55 for 2SLAQ to z=0.681+/- 0.005 for riz-selected LRGs. This extended range is vital for maximising the S/N for the detection of the baryon acoustic oscillations (BAOs). Furthermore, we show that the amplitude of LRG clustering is s_0 = 9.9+/-0.7 h^-1 Mpc, as high as that seen in the 2SLAQ LRG Survey. Consistent results for the real-space amplitude are found from projected and semi-projected correlation functions. This high clustering amplitude is consistent with a long-lived population whose bias evolves as predicted by a simple ``high-peaks'' model. We conclude that a redshift survey of 360 000 LRGs over 3000deg^2, with an effective volume some 4 times bigger than previously used to detect BAO with LRGs, is possible with AAOmega in 170 nights. 
0704.03740	Notes on Superconformal Chern-Simons-Matter Theories	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Davide Gaiotto, Xi Yin	 Abstract: The three dimensional N=2 supersymmetric Chern-Simons theory coupled to matter fields, possibly deformed by a superpotential, give rise to a large class of exactly conformal theories with Lagrangian descriptions. These theories can be arbitrarily weakly coupled, and hence can be studied perturbatively. We study the theories in the large N limit, and compute the two-loop anomalous dimension of certain long operators. Our result suggests that various N=2 U(N) Chern-Simons theories coupled to suitable matter fields are dual to open or closed string theories in AdS4, which are not yet constructed. 
0704.03741	Mesoscopic order and the dimentionality of long-range resonance energy  transfer in supramolecular semiconductors	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Clement Daniel, Francois Makereel, Laura M. Herz, Freek J. M. Hoeben, Pascal Jonkheijm, Albertus P. H. J. Schenning, E. W. Meijer, Carlos Silva	 Abstract: We present time-resolved photoluminescence measurements on two series of oligo-p-phenylenevinylene materials that self-assemble into supramolecular nanostructures with thermotropic reversibility in dodecane. One set of derivatives form chiral, helical stacks while the second set form less organised, frustrated stacks. Here we study the effects of supramolecular organisation on the resonance energy transfer rates. We measure these rates in nanoassemblies formed with mixed blends of oligomers and compare them with the rates predicted by Foerster theory. Our results and analysis show that control of supramolecular order in the nanometre lengthscale has a dominant effect on the efficiency and dimentionality of resonance energy transfer. 
0704.03742	Entropy of Open Lattice Systems	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:B. Derrida, J. L. Lebowitz, E. R. Speer	 Abstract: We investigate the behavior of the Gibbs-Shannon entropy of the stationary nonequilibrium measure describing a one-dimensional lattice gas, of L sites, with symmetric exclusion dynamics and in contact with particle reservoirs at different densities. In the hydrodynamic scaling limit, L to infinity, the leading order (O(L)) behavior of this entropy has been shown by Bahadoran to be that of a product measure corresponding to strict local equilibrium; we compute the first correction, which is O(1). The computation uses a formal expansion of the entropy in terms of truncated correlation functions; for this system the k-th such correlation is shown to be O(L^{-k+1}). This entropy correction depends only on the scaled truncated pair correlation, which describes the covariance of the density field. It coincides, in the large L limit, with the corresponding correction obtained from a Gaussian measure with the same covariance. 
0704.03743	The Suzaku Observation of the Nucleus of the Radio-Loud Active Galaxy  Centaurus A: Constraints on Abundances of the Accreting Material	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Markowitz (1,2), T. Takahashi (3), S. Watanabe (3), K. Nakazawa (3), Y. Fukazawa (4), M. Kokubun (5), K. Makishima (5,6), H. Awaki (7), A. Bamba (6), N. Isobe (6), J. Kataoka (8), G. Madejski (9,10), R. Mushotzky (1), T. Okajima (1), A. Ptak (11), J. N. Reeves (1,11), Y. Ueda (12), T. Yamasaki (4), T. Yaqoob (11) ((1) NASA/GSFC, (2) NASA Post-doc Research Associate, (3) JAXA/IASA, (4) Hiroshima Univ., (5) Univ. of Tokyo, (6) RIKEN, (7) Ehime Univ., (8) Tokyo Institute of Technology, (9) SLAC, (10) Stanford/KIPAC, (11) Johns Hopkins Univ., (12) Kyoto Univ.)	 Abstract: A Suzaku observation of the nucleus of the radio-loud AGN Centaurus A in 2005 has yielded a broadband spectrum spanning 0.3 to 250 keV. The net exposure times after screening were: 70 ks per X-ray Imaging Spectrometer (XIS) camera, 60.8 ks for the Hard X-ray Detector (HXD) PIN, and 17.1 ks for the HXD-GSO. The hard X-rays are fit by two power-laws of the same slope, absorbed by columns of 1.5 and 7 * 10^{23} cm^{-2} respectively. The spectrum is consistent with previous suggestions that the power-law components are X-ray emission from the sub-pc VLBI jet and from Bondi accretion at the core, but it is also consistent with a partial covering interpretation. The soft band is dominated by thermal emission from the diffuse plasma and is fit well by a two-temperature VAPEC model, plus a third power-law component to account for scattered nuclear emission, jet emission, and emission from X-ray Binaries and other point sources. Narrow fluorescent emission lines from Fe, Si, S, Ar, Ca and Ni are detected. The Fe K alpha line width yields a 200 light-day lower limit on the distance from the black hole to the line-emitting gas. Fe, Ca, and S K-shell absorption edges are detected. Elemental abundances are constrained via absorption edge depths and strengths of the fluorescent and diffuse plasma emission lines. The high metallicity ([Fe/H]=+0.1) of the circumnuclear material suggests that it could not have originated in the relatively metal-poor outer halo unless enrichment by local star formation has occurred. Relative abundances are consistent with enrichment from Type II and Ia supernovae. 
0704.03744	The General Form Of Cyclic Orthonormal Generators In R^N	General Mathematics (math.GM)	Authors:Kerry M. Soileau	 Abstract: In this paper we give a definition of cyclic orthonormal generators (cogs) in R^N. We give a general canonical form for their expression. Further, we give an explicit formula for computing the canonical form of any given cog. 
0704.03745	MR Imaging of Reynolds Dilatancy in the Bulk of Smooth Granular Flows	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Ken Sakaie, Denis Fenistein, Timothy J. Carroll, Martin van Hecke, Paul Umbanhowar	 Abstract: Dense granular matter has to expand in order to flow, a phenomenon known as dilatancy. Here we perform, by means of Magnetic Resonance Imaging, direct measurements of the evolution of the local packing density of a slow and smooth granular shear flow generated in a split-bottomed geometry. The dilatancy is found to be surprisingly strong. The dilated zone follow the region of large strain rate and slowly spreads as a function of time. This suggests that the local packing density is governed by the total amount of local strain experienced since the start of the experiment. 
0704.03746	Distributed Algorithms for Spectrum Allocation, Power Control, Routing,  and Congestion Control in Wireless Networks	Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)	Authors:Yufang Xi, Edmund M. Yeh	 Abstract: We develop distributed algorithms to allocate resources in multi-hop wireless networks with the aim of minimizing total cost. In order to observe the fundamental duplexing constraint that co-located transmitters and receivers cannot operate simultaneously on the same frequency band, we first devise a spectrum allocation scheme that divides the whole spectrum into multiple sub-bands and activates conflict-free links on each sub-band. We show that the minimum number of required sub-bands grows asymptotically at a logarithmic rate with the chromatic number of network connectivity graph. A simple distributed and asynchronous algorithm is developed to feasibly activate links on the available sub-bands. Given a feasible spectrum allocation, we then design node-based distributed algorithms for optimally controlling the transmission powers on active links for each sub-band, jointly with traffic routes and user input rates in response to channel states and traffic demands. We show that under specified conditions, the algorithms asymptotically converge to the optimal operating point. 
0704.03747	Lattice QCD thermodynamics with Wilson quarks	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:Shinji Ejiri	 Abstract: We review studies of QCD thermodynamics by lattice QCD simulations with dynamical Wilson quarks. After explaining the basic properties of QCD with Wilson quarks at finite temperature including the phase structure and the scaling properties around the chiral phase transition, we discuss the critical temperature, the equation of state and heavy-quark free energies. 
0704.03748	Clustering Coefficients of Protein-Protein Interaction Networks	Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)	Authors:Gerald A. Miller, Yi Y. Shi, Hong Qian, Karol Bomsztyk	 Abstract: The properties of certain networks are determined by hidden variables that are not explicitly measured. The conditional probability (propagator) that a vertex with a given value of the hidden variable is connected to k of other vertices determines all measurable properties. We study hidden variable models and find an averaging approximation that enables us to obtain a general analytical result for the propagator. Analytic results showing the validity of the approximation are obtained. We apply hidden variable models to protein-protein interaction networks (PINs) in which the hidden variable is the association free-energy, determined by distributions that depend on biochemistry and evolution. We compute degree distributions as well as clustering coefficients of several PINs of different species; good agreement with measured data is obtained. For the human interactome two different parameter sets give the same degree distributions, but the computed clustering coefficients differ by a factor of about two. This shows that degree distributions are not sufficient to determine the properties of PINs. 
0704.03749	Kazhdan and Haagerup properties from the median viewpoint	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:Indira Chatterji, Cornelia Drutu, Frederic Haglund	 Abstract: We prove the existence of a close connection between spaces with measured walls and median metric spaces. We then relate properties (T) and Haagerup (a-T-menability) to actions on median spaces and on spaces with measured walls. This allows us to explore the relationship between the classical properties (T) and Haagerup and their versions using affine isometric actions on $L^p$-spaces. It also allows us to answer an open problem on a dynamical characterization of property (T), generalizing results of Robertson-Steger. 
0704.03750	Thermal Effects of Rotation in Random Classical Zero-Point Radiation	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Yefim S. Levin	 Abstract: The rotating reference system, two-point correlation functions, and energy density are used as the basis for investigating thermal effects observed by a detector rotating through random classical zero-point radiation. The RS consists of Frenet -Serret orthogonal tetrads where the rotating detector is at rest and has a constant acceleration vector. The CFs and the energy density at the rotating reference system should be periodic with rotation period because CF and energy density measurements is one of the tools the detector can use to justify the periodicity of its motion. The CFs have been calculated for both electromagnetic and massless scalar fields in two cases, with and without taking this periodicity into consideration. It turned out that only periodic CFs have some thermal features and particularly the Planck's factor with the temperature T= h w /k . Regarding to the energy density of both electromagnetic and massless scalar field it is shown that the detector rotating in the zero-point radiation observes not only this original zero-point radiation but, above that, also the radiation which would have been observed by an inertial detector in the thermal bath with the Plank's spectrum at the temperature T. This effect is masked by factor 2/3(4 gamma^2-1) for the electromagnetic field and 2/9 (4 gamma ^2-1) for the massless scalar field, where the Lorentz factor gamma=(1 - v^2 / c^2)^(1/2). Appearance of these masking factors is connected with the fact that rotation is defined by two parameters, angular velocity w and the radius of rotation, in contrast with a uniformly accelerated linear motion which is defined by only one parameter, acceleration a. Our calculations involve classical point of view only and to the best of our knowledge these results have not been reported in quantum theory yet. 
0704.03751	Theory of magnetic deflagration	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:D. A. Garanin, E. M. Chudnovsky	 Abstract: Theory of magnetic deflagration (avalanches) in crystals of molecular magnets has been developed. The phenomenon resembles the burning of a chemical substance, with the Zeeman energy playing the role of the chemical energy. Non-destructive reversible character of magnetic deflagration, as well as the possibility to continuously tune the flammability of the crystal by changing the magnetic field, makes molecular magnets an attractive toy system for a detailed study of the burning process. Besides simplicity, new features, as compared to the chemical burning, include possibility of quantum decay of metastable spin states and strong temperature dependence of the heat capacity and thermal conductivity. We obtain analytical and numerical solutions for criteria of the ignition of magnetic deflagration, and compute the ignition rate and the speed of the developed deflagration front. 
0704.03752	Generalizing the notion of Koszul algebra	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Thomas Cassidy, Brad Shelton	 Abstract: We introduce a generalization of the notion of a Koszul algebra, which includes graded algebras with relations in different degrees, and we establish some of the basic properties of these algebras. This class is closed under twists, twisted tensor products, regular central extensions and Ore extensions. We explore the monomial algebras in this class and we include some well-known examples of algebras that fall into this class. 
0704.03753	Investigation of a new conformation of double stranded DNA	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:C. Limouse, C. Danilowicz, V. W. Coljee, N. Kleckner, M. Prentiss	 Abstract: It had been proposed that overstretching double stranded DNA from the 5-5 ends will produce a new fiber form of dsDNA that is narrower than the S form that has been suggested to result when the dsDNA is overstretched from the 3-3 ends. We present the first comparison of the structures that result when dsDNA is overstretched from the 5-5, 3-3, and 3-5 ends and show that the stability of the overstretched form depends on the ends to which the force is applied. The stability also depends strongly on the ionic environment as well as the presence of reagents that bind to ssDNA. 
0704.03754	A large-scale correlated study of linear optical absorption and  low-lying excited states of polyacenes: Pariser-Parr-Pople Hamiltonian	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Priay Sony, Alok Shukla	 Abstract: In this paper we present large-scale correlated calculations of linear optical absorption spectrum of oligo-acenes containing up to seven benzene rings. For the calculations we used the Pariser-Parr-Pople (P-P-P) Hamiltonian, along with the configuration interaction (CI) technique at various levels such as the full CI (FCI), the quadruple CI (QCI) and multi-reference singles-doubles CI (MRSDCI). The role of Coulomb parameters used in the P-P-P Hamiltonian was examined by considering standard Ohno parameters, as well as a screened set of parameters. A detailed analysis of the many-body character of the important excited states contributing to the linear absorption has also been performed. The results of our calculations have been compared extensively with the theoretical work of other authors, as well as with the experiments. 
0704.03755	Helical, Angular and Radial Ordering in Narrow Capillaries	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Igor Erukhimovich (1), Albert Johner (2) ((1) Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia (2) Institute Charles Sadron, Strasbourg, France)	 Abstract: To enlighten the nature of the order-disorder and order-order transitions in block copolymer melts confined in narrow capillaries we analyze peculiarities of the conventional Landau weak crystallization theory of systems confined to cylindrical geometry. This phenomenological approach provides a quantitative classification of the cylindrical ordered morphologies by expansion of the order parameter spatial distribution into the eigenfunctions of the Laplace operator. The symmetry of the resulting ordered morphologies is shown to strongly depend both on the boundary conditions (wall preference) and the ratio of the cylinder radius and the wave length of the critical order parameter fluctuations, which determine the bulk ordering of the system under consideration. In particular, occurrence of the helical morphologies is a rather general consequence of the imposed cylindrical symmetry for narrow enough capillaries. We discuss also the ODT and OOT involving some other simplest morphologies. The presented results are relevant also to other ordering systems as charge-density waves appearing under addition of an ionic solute to a solvent in its critical region, weakly charged polyelectrolyte solutions in poor solvent, microemulsions etc. 
0704.03756	Skew critical problems	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:C. Cuell, G. W. Patrick	 Abstract: Skew critical problems occur in continuous and discrete nonholonomic Lagrangian systems. They are analogues of constrained optimization problems, where the objective is differentiated in directions given by an apriori distribution, instead of tangent directions to the constraint. We show semiglobal existence and uniqueness for nondegenerate skew critical problems, and show that the solutions of two skew critical problems have the same contact as the problems themselves. Also, we develop some infrastructure that is necessary to compute with contact order geometrically, directly on manifolds. 
0704.03757	Consistency between renormalization group running of chiral operator and  counting rule -- Case of chiral pion production operator --	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Satoshi X. Nakamura (1), Anders Gardestig (2) ((1) TRIUMF, (2) South Carolina U.)	 Abstract: In nuclear chiral perturbation theory (ChPT), an operator is defined in a space with a cutoff which may be varied within a certain range. The operator runs as a result of the variation of the cutoff [renormalization group (RG) running]. In order for ChPT to be useful, the operator should run in a way consistent with the counting rule; that is, the running of chiral counter terms have to be of natural size. We vary the cutoff using the Wilsonian renormalization group (WRG) equation, and examine this consistency. As an example, we study the s-wave pion production operator for NN\to d pi, derived in ChPT. We demonstrate that the WRG running does not generate any chiral-symmetry-violating (CSV) interaction, provided that we start with an operator which does not contain a CSV term. We analytically show how the counter terms are generated in the WRG running in case of the infinitesimal cutoff reduction. Based on the analytic result, we argue a range of the cutoff variation for which the running of the counter terms is of natural size. Then, we numerically confirm this. 
0704.03758	Large Deviations for Partition Functions of Directed Polymers and Some  Other Models in an IID Field	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Iddo Ben-Ari	 Abstract: Consider the partition function of a directed polymer in an IID field. We assume that both tails of the negative and the positive part of the field are at least as light as exponential. It is a well-known fact that the free energy of the polymer is equal to a deterministic constant for almost every realization of the field and that the upper tail of the large deviations is exponential. The lower tail of the large deviations is typically lighter than exponential. In this paper we provide a method to obtain estimates on the rate of decay of the lower tail of the large deviations, which are sharp up to multiplicative constants. As a consequence, we show that the lower tail of the large deviations exhibits three regimes, determined according to the tail of the negative part of the field. Our method is simple to apply and can be used to cover other oriented and non-oriented models including first/last-passage percolation and the parabolic Anderson model 
0704.03759	Identifying network communities with a high resolution	Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)	Authors:Jianhua Ruan, Weixiong Zhang	 Abstract: Community structure is an important property of complex networks. An automatic discovery of such structure is a fundamental task in many disciplines, including sociology, biology, engineering, and computer science. Recently, several community discovery algorithms have been proposed based on the optimization of a quantity called modularity (Q). However, the problem of modularity optimization is NP-hard, and the existing approaches often suffer from prohibitively long running time or poor quality. Furthermore, it has been recently pointed out that algorithms based on optimizing Q will have a resolution limit, i.e., communities below a certain scale may not be detected. In this research, we first propose an efficient heuristic algorithm, Qcut, which combines spectral graph partitioning and local search to optimize Q. Using both synthetic and real networks, we show that Qcut can find higher modularities and is more scalable than the existing algorithms. Furthermore, using Qcut as an essential component, we propose a recursive algorithm, HQcut, to solve the resolution limit problem. We show that HQcut can successfully detect communities at a much finer scale and with a higher accuracy than the existing algorithms. Finally, we apply Qcut and HQcut to study a protein-protein interaction network, and show that the combination of the two algorithms can reveal interesting biological results that may be otherwise undetectable. 
0704.03760	An Alternative Source for Dark Energy	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:M.I.Wanas	 Abstract: In the present work, an alternative interpretation of the source of accelerated expansion of the Universe is suggested. A probable candidate is the interaction between the quantum spin of a moving particle and the torsion of space-time, produced by the background gravitational field of the Universe. This interaction has been suggested by the author in a previous work, with some experimental and observational evidences for its existence. It has been shown that this interaction gives rise to a repulsive force. The accelerated expansion of the Universe may give a further evidence on the existence of this interaction on the cosmological scale. 
0704.03761	Gorenstein algebras and Hochschild cohomology	Commutative Algebra (math.AC)	Authors:L. L. Avramov, S. Iyengar	 Abstract: For homomorphism K-->S of commutative rings, where K is Gorenstein and S is essentially of finite type and flat as a K-module, the property that all non-trivial fiber rings of K-->S are Gorenstein is characterized in terms of properties of the cohomology modules Ext_n^{S\otimes_KS}S{S\otimes_KS}. 
0704.03762	Diffusion Anomaly in a three dimensional lattice gas	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Mauricio Girardi, Marcia Szortyka, Marcia C. Barbosa	 Abstract: We investigate the relation between thermodynamic and dynamic properties of an associating lattice gas (ALG) model. The ALG combines a three dimensional lattice gas with particles interacting through a soft core potential and orientational degrees of freedom. From the competition between the directional attractive forces and the soft core potential results two liquid phases, double criticality and density anomaly. We study the mobility of the molecules in this model by calculating the diffusion constant at a constant temperature, $D$. We show that $D$ has a maximum at a density $\rho_{max}$ and a minimum at a density $\rho_{min}<\rho_{max}$. Between these densities the diffusivity differs from the one expected for normal liquids. We also show that in the pressure-temperature phase-diagram the line of extrema in diffusivity is close to the liquid-liquid critical point and it is partially inside the temperature of maximum density (TMD) line. 
0704.03763	Effects of frequency correlation in linear optical entangling gate  operated with independent photons	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Marco Barbieri	 Abstract: Bose-Einstein coalescence of independent photons at the surface of a beam splitter is the physical process that allows linear optical quantum gates to be built. When distinct parametric down-conversion events are used as an independent photon source, distinguishability arises form the energy correlation of each photon with its twin. We find that increasing the pump bandwidth may help in improving the visibility of non-classical interference and reaching a level of near perfect indistinguishability. PACS: 03.67.Mn, 42.65.Lm, 42.50.St. 
0704.03764	Phenomenological template family for black-hole coalescence waveforms	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:P. Ajith, S. Babak, Y. Chen, M. Hewitson, B. Krishnan, J. T. Whelan, B. Bruegmann, P. Diener, J. Gonzalez, M. Hannam, S. Husa, M. Koppitz, D. Pollney, L. Rezzolla, L. Santamaria, A. M. Sintes, U. Sperhake, J. Thornburg	 Abstract: Recent progress in numerical relativity has enabled us to model the non-perturbative merger phase of the binary black-hole coalescence problem. Based on these results, we propose a phenomenological family of waveforms which can model the inspiral, merger, and ring-down stages of black hole coalescence. We also construct a template bank using this family of waveforms and discuss its implementation in the search for signatures of gravitational waves produced by black-hole coalescences in the data of ground-based interferometers. This template bank might enable us to extend the present inspiral searches to higher-mass binary black-hole systems, i.e., systems with total mass greater than about 80 solar masses, thereby increasing the reach of the current generation of ground-based detectors. 
0704.03765	Active metamaterials: sign of refraction index and gain-assisted  dispersion management	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Alexander A. Govyadinov, Mikhail A. Noginov, Viktor A. Podolskiy	 Abstract: We derive an approach to define the causal direction of the wavevector of modes in optical metamaterials, which in turn, determines signs of refractive index and impedance as a function of {\it real and imaginary} parts of dielectric permittivity and magnetic permeability. We use the developed technique to demonstrate that the interplay between resonant response of constituents of metamaterials can be used to achieve efficient dispersion management. Finally we demonstrate broadband dispersion-less index and impedance matching in active nanowire-based negative index materials. Our work opens new practical applications of negative index composites for broadband lensing, imaging, and pulse-routing. 
0704.03766	Geometry-induced asymmetric diffusion	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Robert S. Shaw, Norman Packard, Matthias Schröter, Harry L. Swinney	 Abstract: Past work has shown that ions can pass through a membrane more readily in one direction than the other. We demonstrate here in a model and an experiment that for a mixture of small and large particles such asymmetric diffusion can arise solely from an asymmetry in the geometry of the pores of the membrane. Our deterministic simulation considers a two-dimensional gas of elastic disks of two sizes diffusing through a membrane, and our laboratory experiment examines the diffusion of glass beads of two sizes through a metal membrane. In both experiment and simulation, the membrane is permeable only to the smaller particles, and the asymmetric pores lead to an asymmetry in the diffusion rates of these particles. The presence of even a small percentage of large particles can clog a membrane, preventing passage of the small particles in one direction while permitting free flow of the small particles in the other direction. The purely geometric kinetic constraints may play a role in common biological contexts such as membrane ion channels. 
0704.03767	A new proof of the Beez-Cartan theorem	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Javier Fresan	 Abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. 
0704.03768	Statefinder Diagnostic for Phantom Model with  $V(φ)=V_{0}\exp(-λφ^2)$	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Baorong Chang, Hongya Liu, Lixin Xu, Chengwu Zhang	 Abstract: We investigate the phantom field with potential $V(\phi)=V_{0}\exp(-\lambda{\phi}^2)$ and dark matter in the spatially flat FRW model. It has been shown by numerical calculation that there is a attractor solution in this model. We also apply the statefinder diagnostic to this phantom model. It is shown that the evolving trajectories of this scenario in the $s-r$ diagram is quite different form other dark energy models. 
0704.03769	Circular solution of two unequal mass particles in post-Minkowski  approximation	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Matthew M. Glenz, Koji Uryu	 Abstract: A Fokker action for post-Minkowski approximation with the first post-Newtonian correction is introduced in our previous paper, and a solution for the helically symmetric circular orbit is obtained. We present supplemental results for the circular solution of two unequal mass point-particles. Circular solutions for selected mass ratios are found numerically, and analytic formulas in the extreme mass ratio limit are derived. The leading terms of the analytic formulas agree with the first post-Newtonian formulas in this limit. 
0704.03770	The widths of quarkonia in quark gluon plasma	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Yongjae Park, Kyung-Il Kim, Taesoo Song, Su Houng Lee, Cheuk-Yin Wong	 Abstract: Recent lattice calculations showed that the quarkonia will survive beyond the phase transition temperature, and will dissolve at different temperatures depending on the type of the quarkonium. In this work, we calculate the thermal width of the quarkonium at finite temperature before it dissolves into open heavy quarks. The input of the calculation are the parton quarkonium dissociation cross section to NLO in QCD, the quarkonium wave function in a temperature-dependent potential from lattice QCD, and a thermal distribution of partons with thermal masses. We find that for the J/psi, the total thermal width above 1.4 Tc becomes larger than 100 to 250 MeV, depending on the effective thermal masses of the quark and gluon, which we take between 400 to 600 MeV. Such a width corresponds to an effective dissociation cross section by gluons between 1.5 to 3.5 mb and by quarks 1 to 2 mb at 1.4 Tc. However, at similar temperatures, we find a much smaller thermal width and effective cross section for the upsilon. 
0704.03771	Primordial Evolution in the Finitary Process Soup	Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)	Authors:Olof Gornerup, James P. Crutchfield	 Abstract: A general and basic model of primordial evolution--a soup of reacting finitary and discrete processes--is employed to identify and analyze fundamental mechanisms that generate and maintain complex structures in prebiotic systems. The processes--$\epsilon$-machines as defined in computational mechanics--and their interaction networks both provide well defined notions of structure. This enables us to quantitatively demonstrate hierarchical self-organization in the soup in terms of complexity. We found that replicating processes evolve the strategy of successively building higher levels of organization by autocatalysis. Moreover, this is facilitated by local components that have low structural complexity, but high generality. In effect, the finitary process soup spontaneously evolves a selection pressure that favors such components. In light of the finitary process soup's generality, these results suggest a fundamental law of hierarchical systems: global complexity requires local simplicity. 
0704.03772	Acceleration and Substructure Constraints in a Quasar Outflow	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Patrick B. Hall (1), Sarah I. Sadavoy (1), Damien Hutsemekers (2), John E. Everett (3), Alireza Rafiee (1) ((1) York University, (2) University of Liège, (3) University of Wisconsin-Madison)	 Abstract: We present observations of probable line-of-sight acceleration of a broad absorption trough of C IV in the quasar SDSS J024221.87+004912.6. We also discuss how the velocity overlap of two other outflowing systems in the same object constrains the properties of the outflows. The Si IV doublet in each system has one unblended transition and one transition which overlaps with absorption from the other system. The residual flux in the overlapping trough is well fit by the product of the residual fluxes in the unblended troughs. For these optically thick systems to yield such a result, at least one of them must consist of individual subunits rather than being a single structure with velocity-dependent coverage of the source. If these subunits are identical, opaque, spherical clouds, we estimate the cloud radius to be r = 3.9 10^15 cm. If they are identical, opaque, linear filaments, we estimate their width to be w = 6.5 10^14 cm. These subunits are observed to cover the Mg II broad emission line region of the quasar, at which distance from the black hole the above filament width is equal to the predicted scale height of the outer atmosphere of a thin accretion disk. Insofar as that scale height is a natural size scale for structures originating in an accretion disk, these observations are evidence that the accretion disk can be a source of quasar absorption systems. Based on data from ESO program 075.B-0190(A). 
0704.03773	Avoiding Rotated Bitboards with Direct Lookup	Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)	Authors:Sam Tannous	 Abstract: This paper describes an approach for obtaining direct access to the attacked squares of sliding pieces without resorting to rotated bitboards. The technique involves creating four hash tables using the built in hash arrays from an interpreted, high level language. The rank, file, and diagonal occupancy are first isolated by masking the desired portion of the board. The attacked squares are then directly retrieved from the hash tables. Maintaining incrementally updated rotated bitboards becomes unnecessary as does all the updating, mapping and shifting required to access the attacked squares. Finally, rotated bitboard move generation speed is compared with that of the direct hash table lookup method. 
0704.03774	Mott Insulator - Superfluid Transitions in a Two Band Model at Finite  Temperature and Possible Application to Supersolid 4He	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Huai-Bin Zhuang, Michael Ma, Xi Dai, Fu-Chun Zhang	 Abstract: We study Mott insulator - superfluid transition in a two-band boson Hubbard model, which can be mapped onto a spin-1/2 XY model with spins coupled to an additional Ising degree of freedom. By using a modified mean field theory that include the effects of phase fluctuations, we show that the transition is first order at both zero and finite temperatures. On the Mott insulator side, there may be reentrance in phase transition. These features are consequences of the underlying transition between competing defect poor and defect rich phases. The relevance of the model and our results to supersolid 4He and cold bosonic atoms in optical lattices are discussed. 
0704.03775	Dynamic programming principle for one kind of stochastic recursive  optimal control problem and Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equations	Optimization and Control (math.OC)	Authors:Zhen Wu, Zhiyong Yu	 Abstract: In this paper, we study one kind of stochastic recursive optimal control problem with the obstacle constraints for the cost function where the cost function is described by the solution of one reflected backward stochastic differential equations. We will give the dynamic programming principle for this kind of optimal control problem and show that the value function is the unique viscosity solution of the obstacle problem for the corresponding Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equations. 
0704.03776	On the limits of surface fractal behaviour in silica. A virtual  adsorbates simulation	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Luis Guillermo Cota, Pilar Alonso-Reyes, Pablo de la Mora	 Abstract: A computer simulation technique, suited to replicate real adsorption experiments, was applied to pure simulated silica in order to gain insight into the fractal regime of its surface. The previously reported experimental fractal dimension was closely approached and the hitherto uncharted lower limit of fractal surface behaviour is reported herein. 
0704.03777	On the Theory of Colorful Graphs	General Mathematics (math.GM)	Authors:Dhananjay P. Mehendale	 Abstract: The theory of colorful graphs can be developed by working in Galois field modulo (p), p > 2 and a prime number. The paper proposes a program of possible conversion of graph theory into a pleasant colorful appearance. We propose to paint the usual black (indicating presence of an edge) and white (indicating absence of an edge) edges of graphs using multitude of colors and study their properties. All colorful graphs considered here are simple, i.e. not having any multiple edges or self-loops. This paper is an invitation to the program of generalizing usual graph theory in this direction. 
0704.03778	From Pauli Principle to Hypernucleus, Neutron Star, and Econophysics	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:T. Mart	 Abstract: Proposed by Wolfgang Pauli more than 80 years ago, the exclusion principle has been proven to have a far-reaching consequence, from femtoscopic world to macroscopic, super-dense, and fully relativistic physics. Starting from this principle, we discuss two interesting research topics, which have currently drawn considerable attention in the nuclear- and astrophysics communities; the hypernuclear and neutron star physics. Special attention is given to the electromagnetic production of the hypertriton and the consequences of the neutrino electromagnetic properties in dense matter. We also touch on the new arena which could also be fascinating for physicists; the econophysics. 
0704.03779	Emergent gravity from direct-action EM in a toy universe of electrons  and positrons	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:M. Ibison	 Abstract: We sketch the derivation of a Newtonian gravity-like force emerging from a direct-action variant of classical electromagnetism. The binding energy is a consequence of maximal phase correlation of the sources mediated by approximately monochromatic direct-action fields. The resulting force then has the character of a strong version of the van der Waals force, whose superior strength can be attributed to relatively coherent primary fields (compared with the totally incoherent effects of the ZPF). The model also predicts the existence of a background having some of the character of dark energy. 
0704.03780	Stochastic Optimization Algorithms	Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE)	Authors:Pierre Collet, Jean-Philippe Rennard	 Abstract: When looking for a solution, deterministic methods have the enormous advantage that they do find global optima. Unfortunately, they are very CPU-intensive, and are useless on untractable NP-hard problems that would require thousands of years for cutting-edge computers to explore. In order to get a result, one needs to revert to stochastic algorithms, that sample the search space without exploring it thoroughly. Such algorithms can find very good results, without any guarantee that the global optimum has been reached; but there is often no other choice than using them. This chapter is a short introduction to the main methods used in stochastic optimization. 
0704.03781	Matrix Exponential-Based Closures for the Turbulent Subgrid-Scale Stress  Tensor	Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn)	Authors:Yi Li, Laurent Chevillard, Gregory Eyink, Charles Meneveau	 Abstract: Two approaches for closing the turbulence subgrid-scale stress tensor in terms of matrix exponentials are introduced and compared. The first approach is based on a formal solution of the stress transport equation in which the production terms can be integrated exactly in terms of matrix exponentials. This formal solution of the subgrid-scale stress transport equation is shown to be useful to explore special cases, such as the response to constant velocity gradient, but neglecting pressure-strain correlations and diffusion effects. The second approach is based on an Eulerian-Lagrangian change of variables, combined with the assumption of isotropy for the conditionally averaged Lagrangian velocity gradient tensor and with the `Recent Fluid Deformation' (RFD) approximation. It is shown that both approaches lead to the same basic closure in which the stress tensor is expressed as the product of the matrix exponential of the resolved velocity gradient tensor multiplied by its transpose. Short-time expansions of the matrix exponentials are shown to provide an eddy-viscosity term and particular quadratic terms, and thus allow a reinterpretation of traditional eddy-viscosity and nonlinear stress closures. The basic feasibility of the matrix-exponential closure is illustrated by implementing it successfully in Large Eddy Simulation of forced isotropic turbulence. The matrix-exponential closure employs the drastic approximation of entirely omitting the pressure-strain correlation and other `nonlinear scrambling' terms. But unlike eddy-viscosity closures, the matrix exponential approach provides a simple and local closure that can be derived directly from the stress transport equation with the production term, and using physically motivated assumptions about Lagrangian decorrelation and upstream isotropy. 
0704.03782	Resummation of Large Logarithms in $γ^* π^0 \to γ$	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:F. Feng, J.P. Ma, Q. Wang	 Abstract: In the collinear factorization of the form factor for the transition $\gamma^* \pi^0 \to \gamma$ the hard part contains double log terms as $\ln^2 x$ with $x$ as the momentum fraction of partons from 0 to 1. A simple exponentiation for resummation leads to divergent results. We study the resummation of these $\ln^2 x$ terms. We show that the $\ln^2 x$ terms come partly from the light-cone wave function(LCWF) and partly from the form factor. We introduce a jet factor to factorize the $\ln^2 x$ term in the form factor. To handel the $\ln^2 x$ terms from the LCWF we introduce a nonstandard light-cone wave function(NLCWF) with the gauge links off the light-cone direction. An interesting relation between two wave function is found. With the introduced NLCWF and the jet factor we can re-factorize the form factor and obtain a new hard part which does not contain terms with $\ln^2 x$. Beside the renormalization scale $\mu$ the introduce NLCWF and jet factor have extra scales to characterize their $x$-behaviors. Using the evolutions of the extra scales and the relation we can do the resummation perturbatively in sense that the LCWF is the only nonpertubative object in the resumed formula. Our results with some models of LCWF show that there is a significant difference between numerical predictions with the resummation and that without the resummation, and the resummed predictions can describe the experimental data. 
0704.03783	Congruent numbers, elliptic curves, and the passage from the local to  the global	History and Overview (math.HO)	Authors:Chandan Singh Dalawat	 Abstract: The ancient unsolved problem of congruent numbers has been reduced to one of the major questions of contemporary arithmetic: the finiteness of the number of curves over $\bf Q$ which become isomorphic at every place to a given curve. We give an elementary introduction to congruent numbers and their conjectural characterisation, discuss local-to-global issues leading to the finiteness problem, and list a few results and conjectures in the arithmetic theory of elliptic curves. 
0704.03784	Scalar-tensor black holes coupled to Born-Infeld nonlinear  electrodynamics	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Ivan Zh. Stefanov, Stoytcho S. Yazadjiev, Michail D. Todorov	 Abstract: The non-existence of asymptotically flat, neutral black holes and asymptotically flat, charged black holes in the Maxwell electrodynamics, with non-trivial scalar field has been proved for a large class of scalar-tensor theories. The no-scalar-hair theorems, however, do not apply in the case of non-linear electrodynamics. In the present work numerical solutions describing charged black holes coupled to Born-Infeld type non-linear electrodynamics in scalar-tensor theories of gravity with massless scalar field are found. The causal structure and properties of the solutions are studied, and a comparison between these solutions and the corresponding solutions in the General Relativity is made. The presence of the scalar field leads to a much more simple causal structure. The present class of black holes has a single, non-degenerate horizon, i.e., its causal structure resembles that of the Schwarzschild black hole. 
0704.03785	On the smoothness of Hölder-doubling measures	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:David Preiss, Xavier Tolsa, Tatiana Toro	 Abstract: In this paper we consider the question of whether the doubling character of a measure supported on a subset of $\RR^m$ determines the regularity of its support (in a classical sense). This problem was studied by David, Kenig and Toro for codimension 1 sets under the assumption that the support be flat. Here we study the higher codimension case and remove the flatness hypothesis. 
0704.03786	Graphene: A Pseudochiral Fermi Liquid	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Marco Polini, Reza Asgari, Yafis Barlas, T. Pereg-Barnea, A.H. MacDonald	 Abstract: Doped graphene sheets are pseudochiral two-dimensional Fermi liquids with abnormal electron-electron interaction physics. We address graphene's Fermi liquid properties quantitatively using a microscopic random-phase-approximation theory and comment on the importance of using exchange-correlation potentials based on the properties of a chiral two-dimensional electron gas in density-functional-theory applications to graphene nanostructures. 
0704.03787	Some Exact Solutions to Equations of Motion of an Incompressible Third  Grade Fluid	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Saifullah	 Abstract: This investigation deals with some exact solutions of the equations governing the steady plane motions of an incompressible third grade fluid by using complex variables and complex functions. Some of the solutions admit, as particular cases, all the solutions of Moro et al[1]. 
0704.03788	Anderson localization and nonlinearity in one dimensional disordered  photonic lattices	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Yoav Lahini, Assaf Avidan, Francesca Pozzi, Marc Sorel, Roberto Morandotti, Demetrios N. Christodoulides, Yaron Silberberg	 Abstract: We experimentally investigate the evolution of linear and nonlinear waves in a realization of the Anderson model using disordered one dimensional waveguide lattices. Two types of localized eigenmodes, flat-phased and staggered, are directly measured. Nonlinear perturbations enhances localization in one type, and induce delocalization in the other. In a complementary approach, we study the evolution on short time scales of $\delta$-like wavepackets in the presence of disorder. A transition from ballistic wavepacket expansion to exponential (Anderson) localization is observed. We find an intermediate regime in which the ballistic and localized components coexist while diffusive dynamics is absent. Evidence is found for a faster transition into localization under nonlinear conditions. 
0704.03789	Driven localized excitations in the acoustic spectrum of small nonlinear  macroscopic and microscopic lattices	Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)	Authors:M. Sato, A. J. Sievers	 Abstract: Both bright and dark traveling, locked, intrinsic localized modes (ILMs) have been generated with a spatially uniform driver at a frequency in the acoustic spectrum of a nonlinear micromechanical cantilever array. Complementary numerical simulations show that a minimum density of modes, hence array size, is required for the formation of such locked smoothly running excitations. Additional simulations on a small 1-D antiferromagnetic spin system are used to illustrate that such uniformly driven running ILMs should be a generic feature of a nanoscale atomic lattice. 
0704.03790	Next-to-leading-order corrections to exclusive processes in $k_T$  factorization	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Soumitra Nandi, Hsiang-nan Li	 Abstract: We calculate next-to-leading-order (NLO) corrections to exclusive processes in $k_T$ factorization theorem, taking $\pi\gamma^*\to\gamma$ as an example. Partons off-shell by $k_T^2$ are considered in both the quark diagrams from full QCD and the effective diagrams for the pion wave function. The gauge dependences in the above two sets of diagrams cancel, when deriving the $k_T$-dependent hard kernel as their difference. The gauge invariance of the hard kernel is then proven to all orders by induction. The light-cone singularities in the $k_T$-dependent pion wave function are regularized by rotating the Wilson lines away from the light cone. This regularization introduces a factorization-scheme dependence into the hard kernel, which can be minimized in the standard way. Both the large double logarithms $\ln^2k_T$ and $\ln^2 x$, $x$ being a parton momentum fraction, arise from the loop correction to the virtual photon vertex, the former being absorbed into the pion wave function and organized by the $k_T$ resummation, and the latter absorbed into a jet function and organized by the threshold resummation. The NLO corrections are found to be only few-percent for $\pi\gamma^*\to\gamma$, if setting the factorization scale to the momentum transfer from the virtual photon. 
0704.03791	Microfractured media with a scale and Mumford-Shah energies	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Marius Buliga	 Abstract: We want to understand he concentration of damage in microfractured elastic media. Due to the different scallings of the volume and area (or area and length in two dimensions) the traditional method of homogenization using periodic arrays of cells seems to fail when applied to the Mumford-Shah functional and to periodically fractured domains. In the present paper we are departing from traditional homogenization. The main result implies the use of Mumford-Shah energies and leads to an explanation of the observed concentration of damage in microfractured elastic bodies. 
0704.03792	Gaussian-Basis Monte Carlo Method for Numerical Study on Ground States  of Itinerant and Strongly Correlated Electron Systems	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Takeshi Aimi, Masatoshi Imada	 Abstract: We examine Gaussian-basis Monte Carlo method (GBMC) introduced by Corney and Drummond. This method is based on an expansion of the density-matrix operator rho by means of the coherent Gaussian-type operator basis Lambda and does not suffer from the minus sign problem. The original method, however, often fails in reproducing the true ground state and causes systematic errors of calculated physical quantities because the samples are often trapped in some metastable or symmetry broken states. To overcome this difficulty, we combine the quantum-number projection scheme proposed by Assaad, Werner, Corboz, Gull and Troyer in conjunction with the importance sampling of the original GBMC method. This improvement allows us to carry out the importance sampling in the quantum-number-projected phase-space. Some comparisons with the previous quantum-number projection scheme indicate that, in our method, the convergence with the ground state is accelerated, which makes it possible to extend the applicability and widen the range of tractable parameters in the GBMC method. The present scheme offers an efficient practical way of computation for strongly correlated electron systems beyond the range of system sizes, interaction strengths and lattice structures tractable by other computational methods such as the quantum Monte Carlo method. 
0704.03793	Neutron-Deuteron System and Photon Polarization Parameter at Thermal  Neutron Energies	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:H. Sadeghi	 Abstract: Effective Field Theory(EFT) is, the unique, model independent and systematic low-energy version of QCD for processes involving momenta below the pion mass. A low-energy photo-nuclear observable in three-body systems, photon polarization parameter at thermal neutron energies is calculated by using pionless EFT up to next-to-next to leading order(N$^2$LO). In order to make a comparative study of this model, we compared our results for photon polarization parameter with the realistic Argonne $v_{18}$ two-nucleon and Urbana IX or Tucson-Melbourne three-nucleon interactions. Three-body currents give small but significant contributions to some of the observables in the neutron-deuteron radiative capture cross section at thermal neutron energies. In this formalism the three-nucleon forces are needed up to N$^2$LO for cut-off independent results. Our result converges order by order in low energy expansion and also cut-off independent at this order. 
0704.03794	Non-equilibrium mechanics and dynamics of motor activated gels	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Fred C. MacKintosh, Alex J. Levine	 Abstract: The mechanics of cells is strongly affected by molecular motors that generate forces in the cellular cytoskeleton. We develop a model for cytoskeletal networks driven out of equilibrium by molecular motors exerting transient contractile stresses. Using this model we show how motor activity can dramatically increase the network's bulk elastic moduli. We also show how motor binding kinetics naturally leads to enhanced low-frequency stress fluctuations that result in non-equilibrium diffusive motion within an elastic network, as seen in recent \emph{in vitro} and \emph{in vivo} experiments. 
0704.03795	Chaotic traveling rolls in Rayleigh-Bénard convection	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:Supriyo Pal, Krishna Kumar, Mahendra K. Verma, Daniele Carati, Arnab K. De, Vinayak Eswaran	 Abstract: In this paper we investigate two-dimensional (2D) Rayleigh-B\'enard convection using direct numerical simulation in Boussinesq fluids of Prandtl number $P = 6.8$ confined between thermally conducting plates. We show through the simulation that in a small range of reduced Rayleigh number $r$ ($770 < r < 890$) the 2D rolls move chaotically in a direction normal to the roll axis. The lateral shift of the rolls may lead to global flow reversal of the convective motion. The chaotic traveling rolls are observed in simulation with {\it free-slip} as well as {\it no-slip} boundary conditions on the velocity field. We show that the traveling rolls and the flow reversal are due to an interplay between the real and imaginary parts of the critical modes. 
0704.03796	Coherent control of broadband vacuum squeezing	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Simon Chelkowski, Henning Vahlbruch, Karsten Danzmann, Roman Schnabel	 Abstract: We present the observation of optical fields carrying squeezed vacuum states at sideband frequencies from 10Hz to above 35MHz. The field was generated with type-I optical parametric oscillation below threshold at 1064nm. A coherent, unbalanced classical modulation field at 40MHz enabled the generation of error signals for stable phase control of the squeezed vacuum field with respect to a strong local oscillator. Broadband squeezing of approximately -4dB was measured with balanced homodyne detection. The spectrum of the squeezed field allows a quantum noise reduction of ground-based gravitational wave detectors over their full detection band, regardless of whether homodyne readout or radio-frequency heterodyne readout is used. 
0704.03797	The origin of the work function	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:H.C. Mastwijk, P.V. Bartels, H.L.M. Lelieveld	 Abstract: In this paper we analyse the mechanisms responsible for the bonding of electrons to metal surfaces. We present and validate a method to measure the energy distribution of dense electron ensembles at ambient conditions. We have found sharp structures in the energy distribution of charge confined at metal surfaces. These structures correspond to the onset of space charge i.e. electron emission. The threshold energy for emission increases linear with the free electron density. We conclude that the work function is a direct measure of the Hartree-Fock exchange energy. Remarkably, the emissions that have been observed do not obey the Einstein-Millikan threshold relation for the photo electric effect. By discrimination between requirements for energy and momentum we deduce that electron emissions are trigged by photon momentum. We claim that the photo electric effect is the result of a phase transition in an electron gas that connects a surface bound, condensed state to a free continuum state. The assignment of a phase transition to the effect under consideration is justified by analyzing the behaviour of the Fermi-Dirac energy distribution upon raising the Fermi level. We predict an abrupt increment in the number of electrons in the continuum that exceeds 70 orders of magnitude. Both the observed threshold energy and the line shape of the transition are in good agreement with theoretical predictions. 
0704.03798	Modeling the Epps effect of cross correlations in asset prices	Statistical Finance (q-fin.ST)	Authors:Bence Toth, Balint Toth, Janos Kertesz	 Abstract: We review the decomposition method of stock return cross-correlations, presented previously for studying the dependence of the correlation coefficient on the resolution of data (Epps effect). Through a toy model of random walk/Brownian motion and memoryless renewal process (i.e. Poisson point process) of observation times we show that in case of analytical treatability, by decomposing the correlations we get the exact result for the frequency dependence. We also demonstrate that our approach produces reasonable fitting of the dependence of correlations on the data resolution in case of empirical data. Our results indicate that the Epps phenomenon is a product of the finite time decay of lagged correlations of high resolution data, which does not scale with activity. The characteristic time is due to a human time scale, the time needed to react to news. 
0704.03799	Spin filtering implemented through Rashba and weak magnetic modulations	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:S.J. Gong, Z.Q. Yang	 Abstract: We present two theoretical schemes for spin filters in one-dimensional semiconductor quantum wires with spatially modulated Rashba spin-orbit coupling (SOC) as well as weak magnetic potential. For case I, the SOC is periodic and the weak magnetic potential is applied uniformly along the wire. Full spin polarizations with opposite signs are obtained within two separated energy intervals. For case II, the weak magnetic potential is periodic while the SOC is uniform. An ideal negative/positive switching effect for spin polarization is realized by tuning the strength of SOC. The roles of SOC, magnetic potential, and their coupling on the spin filtering are analyzed. 
0704.03800	CMB polarization power spectra contributions from a network of cosmic  strings	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Neil Bevis, Mark Hindmarsh, Martin Kunz, Jon Urrestilla	 Abstract: We present the first calculation of the possible (local) cosmic string contribution to the cosmic microwave background polarization spectra from simulations of a string network (rather than a stochastic collection of unconnected string segments). We use field theory simulations of the Abelian Higgs model to represent local U(1) strings, including their radiative decay and microphysics. Relative to previous estimates, our calculations show a shift in power to larger angular scales, making the chance of a future cosmic string detection from the B-mode polarization slightly greater. We explore a future ground-based polarization detector, taking the CLOVER project as our example. In the null hypothesis (that cosmic strings make a zero contribution) we find that CLOVER should limit the string tension \mu to G\mu<0.12e-6 (where G is the gravitational constant), above which it is likely that a detection would be possible. 
0704.03801	An annular gap acceleration model for $γ$-ray emission of pulsars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G. J. Qiao, K. J. Lee, B. Zhang, H. G. Wang, R. X. Xu	 Abstract: If the binding energy of the pulsar's surface is not so high (the case of a neutron star), both the negative and positive charges will flow out freely from the surface of the star. The annular free flow model for $\gamma$-ray emission of pulsars is suggested in this paper. It is emphasized that: (1). Two kinds of acceleration regions (annular and core) need to be taken into account. The annular acceleration region is defined by the magnetic field lines that cross the null charge surface within the light cylinder. (2). If the potential drop in the annular region of a pulsar is high enough (normally the cases of young pulsars), charges in both the annular and the core regions could be accelerated and produce primary gamma-rays. Secondary pairs are generated in both regions and stream outwards to power the broadband radiations. (3). The potential drop in the annular region grows more rapidly than that in the core region. The annular acceleration process is a key point to produce wide emission beams as observed. (4). The advantages of both the polar cap and outer gap models are retained in this model. The geometric properties of the $\gamma$-ray emission from the annular flow is analogous to that presented in a previous work by Qiao et al., which match the observations well. (5). Since charges with different signs leave the pulsar through the annular and the core regions, respectively, the current closure problem can be partially solved. 
0704.03802	Entropic Studies of Cytoskeletal Motors Jamming	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:C.M. Arizmendi, H.G.E. Hentschel, F. Family	 Abstract: Can the different causes for disruption of intracellular transport be traced from the trajectories of the molecular motors on the cytoskeletal filaments? We will attempt to answer this important question in a Monte Carlo model of microtubule-motor protein interaction from the point of view of information theory. 
0704.03803	Are the most metal-poor galaxies young?	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Daniel Kunth (Institut Astrophysique de Paris, France; kunth at iap.fr), Goran Ostlin (Stockholm Observatory, Sweden; ostlin at astro.su.se)	 Abstract: We review the possibility that metallicity could provide a diagnostic for the age of a galaxy, hence that the most metal-poor star forming galaxies in the local universe may be genuinely young. Indeed, observational evidence for downsizing shows the average age of the stars in a galaxy to decrease with decreasing mass and metallicity. However, we conclude both from observational and theoretical viewpoints that metallicity is not an arrow of time. Consequently the most metal poor galaxies of our local universe are not necessarely young. Current observations suggest that an old stellar population is present in all metal-poor galaxies, although a couple of cases, e.g. IZw18, remain under debate. Further observations with more sentitive equipement should settle this question in the coming years. 
0704.03804	Superconducting antenna for detection of gravitational waves	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:A. M. Gulian	 Abstract: Combining the principle of magnetic flux quantization inside a superconducting loop and existence of rigid platforms (i.e., solids, non-deformable under the action of gravitational waves) a design for gravitational wave antenna is suggested. This design could yield a non-resonant detector, with modest sizes and capability to generate detectable signals for gravitational waves from astrophysical sources. 
0704.03805	Starbursts and their contribution to metal enrichment	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Kunth Daniel (Institut Astrophysique de Paris, France)	 Abstract: I review the properties of starburst galaxies, compare the properties of the local ones with more distant starburts and examine their role in the metal enrichment of the interstellar medium and the intergalactic-intracluster medium. Metallicity is not an arrow of time and contrary to current belief metal rich galaxies can also be found at high redshift. 
0704.03806	Coherence of a Josephson phase qubit under partial-collapse measurement	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Leonid P. Pryadko, Alexander N. Korotkov	 Abstract: We discuss quantum evolution of a decaying state in relation to a recent experiment of Katz et al. Based on exact analytical and numerical solutions of a simple model, we identify a regime where qubit retains coherence over a finite time interval independently of the rates of three competing decoherence processes. In this regime, the quantum decay process can be continuously monitored via a ``weak'' measurement without affecting the qubit coherence. 
0704.03807	Atomic data from the Iron Project. LXIV. Radiative transition rates and  collision strengths for Ca II	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M. Melendez, M.A. Bautista, N.R. Badnell	 Abstract: This work reports radiative transition rates and electron impact excitation rate coefficients for levels of the n= 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 configurations of Ca II. The radiative data were computed using the Thomas-Fermi-Dirac central potential method in the frozen core approximation and includes the polarization interaction between the valence electron and the core using a model potential. This method allows for configuration interactions (CI) and relativistic effects in the Breit-Pauli formalism. Collision strengths in LS-coupling were calculated in the close coupling approximation with the R-matrix method. Then, fine structure collision strengths were obtained by means of the intermediate-coupling frame transformation (ICFT) method which accounts for spin-orbit coupling effects. We present extensive comparisons with the most recent calculations and measurements for Ca II as well as a comparison between the core polarization results and the "unpolarized" values. We find that core polarization affects the computed lifetimes by up to 20%. Our results are in very close agreement with recent measurements for the lifetimes of metastable levels. The present collision strengths were integrated over a Maxwellian distribution of electron energies and the resulting effective collision strengths are given for a wide range of temperatures. Our effective collision strengths for the resonance transitions are within ~11% from previous values derived from experimental measurements, but disagree with latter computations using the distorted wave approximation. 
0704.03808	On Gene Duplication Models for Evolving Regulatory Networks	Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)	Authors:Jakob Enemark, Kim Sneppen	 Abstract: Background: Duplication of genes is important for evolution of molecular networks. Many authors have therefore considered gene duplication as a driving force in shaping the topology of molecular networks. In particular it has been noted that growth via duplication would act as an implicit way of preferential attachment, and thereby provide the observed broad degree distributions of molecular networks. Results: We extend current models of gene duplication and rewiring by including directions and the fact that molecular networks are not a result of unidirectional growth. We introduce upstream sites and downstream shapes to quantify potential links during duplication and rewiring. We find that this in itself generates the observed scaling of transcription factors for genome sites in procaryotes. The dynamical model can generate a scale-free degree distribution, p(k)&prop; 1/k^&gamma;, with exponent &gamma;=1 in the non-growing case, and with &gamma;>1 when the network is growing. Conclusions: We find that duplication of genes followed by substantial recombination of upstream regions could generate main features of genetic regulatory networks. Our steady state degree distribution is however to broad to be consistent with data, thereby suggesting that selective pruning acts as a main additional constraint on duplicated genes. Our analysis shows that gene duplication can only be a main cause for the observed broad degree distributions, if there is also substantial recombinations between upstream regions of genes. 
0704.03809	Single NanoParticle Photothermal Tracking (SNaPT) of 5 nm gold beads in  live cells	Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)	Authors:David Lasne (CPMOH), Gerhard A. Blab (CPMOH), Stéphane Berciaud (CPMOH), Martin Heine (PCS), Laurent Groc (PCS), Daniel Choquet (PCS), Laurent Cognet (CPMOH), Brahim Lounis (CPMOH)	 Abstract: Tracking individual nano-objets in live cells during arbitrary long times is an ubiquitous need in modern biology. We present here a method for tracking individual 5 nm gold nanoparticles on live cells. It relies on the photothermal effect and the detection of the Laser Induced Scattering around a NanoAbsorber (LISNA). The key point for recording trajectories at video rate is the use of a triangulation procedure. The effectiveness of the method is tested against Single fluorescent Molecule Tracking in live COS7 cells on subsecond time scales. We further demonstrate recordings for several minutes of AMPA receptors trajectories on the plasma membrane of live neurons. SNaPT has the unique potential to record arbitrary long trajectory of membrane proteins using non-fluorescent nanometer sized labels. 
0704.03810	Positronium Groundstate in Relativistic Schroedinger Theory	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:T.Beck, M.Mattes, M.Sorg	 Abstract: The usefulness of the Relativistic Schr\"odinger Theory (RST) is studied in the field of atomic physics. As a concrete demonstration, the positronium groundstate is considered in great detail; especially the groundstate energy $E_0$ is worked out in the non-relativistic approximation and under neglection of the magnetic interactions between the positron and the electron. The corresponding RST prediction $(E_0\simeq -6,48 [eV])$ misses the analogous conventional Schr\"odinger result $(E_0\simeq -6,80 [eV])$ but is closer to the latter than the corresponding Hartree approximation $(-2,65 [eV])$. The missing binding energy of $6,80-6,48=0,32 [eV]$ can be attributed to the approximative use of an SO(3) symmetric interaction potential which in RST, however, is actually only SO(2) invariant against rotations around the z-axis. It is expected that, with the correct use of an anisotropic interaction potential due to the SO(2) symmetry, the RST predictions will come even closer to the conventional Schr\"odinger result, where however the mathematical structure of RST relies on exotic (i.e. double-valued) wave functions and on the corresponding unconventional interaction potentials (e.g. Struve-Neumann potential). 
0704.03811	Relative Cuntz-Pimsner Algebras, Partial Isometric Crossed Products and  Reduction of Relations	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:B. K. Kwasniewski, A. V. Lebedev	 Abstract: The article discusses the interrelation between relative Cuntz-Pimsner algebras and partial isometric crossed products, and presents a procedure that reduces any given Hilbert bimodule to the "smallest" Hilbert bimodule yielding the same relative Cuntz-Pimsner algebra as the initial one. In the context of crossed products this reduction procedure corresponds to reduction of C*-dynamical systems. 
0704.03812	Conditional observability	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:Miloslav Znojil	 Abstract: For a quantum Hamiltonian H =H(p) the observability of the energies E may be robust (whenever all E are real at all p) or, otherwise, conditional. Using a pseudo-Hermitian family of N-state chain models H we discuss some generic properties of conditionally observable spectra. 
0704.03813	The Curious Case of NGC6908	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:B.F. Madore (1), A. Gil de Paz (2), O. Pevunova (3), I. Thompson (1) ((1) Carnegie Observatories, (2) Universidad Complutense de Madrid, (3) NED, Caltech)	 Abstract: The object NGC6908 was once thought to be simply a surface-brightness enhancement in the eastern spiral arm of the nearby spiral galaxy NGC6907. Based on an examination of near-infrared imaging, the object is shown in fact to be a lenticular S0(6/7) galaxy hidden in the optical glare of the disk and spiral structure of the larger galaxy. New radial velocities of NGC6908 (3,060+/-16 (emission); 3,113+/-73 km/s (absorption)) have been obtained at the Baade 6.5m and the duPont 2.5m telescopes at Las Campanas, Chile placing NGC6908 at the same expansion-velocity distance as NGC6907 (3,190+/-5 km/s), eliminating the possibility of a purely chance line-of-sight coincidence. The once-enigmatic asymmetries in the disk and outer spiral structure of NGC6907 are now explained as being due to an advanced merger event. Newly discovered tails and debris in the outer reaches of this galaxy further support the merger scenario for this system. This pair of galaxies is a rather striking example of two objects discovered over 100 years ago, whose true nature was lost until modern detectors operating at infrared wavelengths gave us a new (high-contrast) look. Other examples of embedded merger remnants may also reveal themselves in the growing samples of near-infrared imaging of nearby galaxies; and a pilot study does reveal several other promising candidates for follow-up observations. 
0704.03814	Observation of intrinsic size effects in the optical response of  individual gold nanoparticles	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Stéphane Berciaud (CPMOH), Laurent Cognet (CPMOH), Philippe Tamarat (CPMOH), Brahim Lounis (CPMOH)	 Abstract: The Photothermal Heterodyne Imaging method is used to study for the first time the absorption spectra of individual gold nanoparticles with diameters down to 5 nm. Intrinsic size effects wich result in a broadening of the Surface Plasmon resonance are unambiguously observed. Dispersions in the peak energies and homogeneous widths of the single particle resonances are revealed. The experimental results are analysed within the frame of Mie theory. 
0704.03815	Photothermal Absorption Spectroscopy of Individual Semiconductor  Nanocrystals	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Stéphane Berciaud (CPMOH), Laurent Cognet (CPMOH), Brahim Lounis (CPMOH)	 Abstract: Photothermal heterodyne detection is used to record the first room-temperature absorption spectra of single CdSe/ZnS semiconductor nanocrystals. These spectra are recorded in the high cw excitation regime, and the observed bands are assigned to transitions involving biexciton and trion states. Comparison with the single nanocrystals photoluminescence spectra leads to the measurement of spectral Stokes shifts free from ensemble averaging. 
0704.03816	Single metallic nanoparticle imaging for protein detection in cells	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Laurent Cognet (CPMOH), Catherine Tardin (CPMOH), David Boyer (CPMOH), Daniel Choquet (PCS), Philippe Tamarat (CPMOH), Brahim Lounis (CPMOH)	 Abstract: We performed a visualization of membrane proteins labeled with 10-nm gold nanoparticles in cells, using an all-optical method based on photothermal interference contrast. The high sensitivity of the method and the stability of the signals allows 3D imaging of individual nanoparticles without the drawbacks of photobleaching and blinking inherent to fluorescent markers. A simple analytical model is derived to account for the measurements of the signal amplitude and the spatial resolution. The photothermal interference contrast method provides an efficient, reproducible, and promising way to visualize low amounts of proteins in cells by optical means. 
0704.03817	Trapping mechanism in overdamped ratchets with quenched noise	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:D.G. Zarlenga, H.A. Larrondo, C.M. Arizmendi, F. Family	 Abstract: A trapping mechanism is observed and proposed as the origin of the anomalous behavior recently discovered in transport properties of overdamped ratchets subject to external oscillatory drive in the presence of quenched noise. In particular, this mechanism is shown to appear whenever the quenched disorder strength is greater than a threshold value. The minimum disorder strength required for the existence of traps is determined by studying the trap structure in a disorder configuration space. An approximation to the trapping probability density function in a disordered region of finite length included in an otherwise perfect ratchet lattice is obtained. The mean velocity of the particles and the diffusion coefficient are found to have a non-monotonic dependence on the quenched noise strength due to the presence of the traps. 
0704.03818	Analytic approach to the thermal Casimir force between metal and  dielectric	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:B. Geyer, G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.M. Mostepanenko	 Abstract: The analytic asymptotic expressions for the Casimir free energy, pressure and entropy at low temperature in the configuration of one metal and one dielectric plate are obtained. For this purpose we develop the perturbation theory in a small parameter proportional to the product of the separation between the plates and the temperature. This is done using both the simplified model of an ideal metal and of a dielectric with constant dielectric permittivity and for the realistic case of the metal and dielectric with frequency-dependent dielectric permittivities. The analytic expressions for all related physical quantities at high temperature are also provided. The obtained analytic results are compared with numerical computations and good agreement is found. We demonstrate for the first time that the Lifshitz theory, when applied to the configuration of metal-dielectric, satisfies the requirements of thermodynamics if the static dielectric permittivity of a dielectric plate is finite. If it is infinitely large, the Lifshitz formula is shown to violate the Nernst heat theorem. The implications of these results for the thermal quantum field theory in Matsubara formulation and for the recent measurements of the Casimir force between metal and semiconductor surfaces are discussed. 
0704.03819	Weyl modules for the twisted loop algebras	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Vyjayanthi Chari, Ghislain Fourier, Prasad Senesi	 Abstract: The notion of a Weyl module, previously defined for the untwisted affine algebras, is extended here to the twisted affine algebras. We describe an identification of the Weyl modules for the twisted affine algebras with suitably chosen Weyl modules for the untwisted affine algebras. This identification allows us to use known results in the untwisted case to compute the dimensions and characters of the Weyl modules for the twisted algebras. 
0704.03820	An inequality for the Perron and Floquet eigenvalues of monotone  differential systems and age structured equations	Spectral Theory (math.SP)	Authors:Jean Clairambault, Stephane Gaubert, Benoit Perthame	 Abstract: For monotone linear differential systems with periodic coefficients, the (first) Floquet eigenvalue measures the growth rate of the system. We define an appropriate arithmetico-geometric time average of the coefficients for which we can prove that the Perron eigenvalue is smaller than the Floquet eigenvalue. We apply this method to Partial Differential Equations, and we use it for an age-structured systems of equations for the cell cycle. This opposition between Floquet and Perron eigenvalues models the loss of circadian rhythms by cancer cells. 
0704.03821	Compositions of Graphs Revisited	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Aminul Huq	 Abstract: The idea of graph compositions, which was introduced by A. Knopfmacher and M. E. Mays, generalizes both ordinary compositions of positive integers and partitions of finite sets. In their original paper they developed formulas, generating functions, and recurrence relations for composition counting functions for several families of graphs. Here we show that some of the results involving compositions of bipartite graphs can be derived more easily using exponential generating functions. 
0704.03822	Recovery of edges from spectral data with noise -- a new perspective	Numerical Analysis (math.NA)	Authors:Shlomo Engelberg, Eitan Tadmor	 Abstract: We consider the problem of detecting edges in piecewise smooth functions from their N-degree spectral content, which is assumed to be corrupted by noise. There are three scales involved: the "smoothness" scale of order 1/N, the noise scale of order $\eta$ and the O(1) scale of the jump discontinuities. We use concentration factors which are adjusted to the noise variance, $\eta$ >> 1/N, in order to detect the underlying O(1)-edges, which are separated from the noise scale, $\eta$ << 1. 
0704.03823	Effect of Decoherence on the Dynamics of Bose-Einstein Condensates in a  Double-well Potential	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:W. Wang, L. B. Fu, X. X. Yi	 Abstract: We study the dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a double-well potential in the mean-field approximation. Decoherence effects are considered by analyzing the couplings of the condensate to environments. Two kinds of coupling are taken into account. With the first kind of coupling dominated, the decoherence can enhance the self-trapping by increasing the damping of the oscillations in the dynamics, while the decoherence from the second kind of condensate-environment coupling leads to spoiling of the quantum tunneling and self-trapping. 
0704.03824	Quantum Theory of Orbital Magnetization and its Generalization to  Interacting Systems	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Junren Shi, G. Vignale, Di Xiao, Qian Niu	 Abstract: Based on standard perturbation theory, we present a full quantum derivation of the formula for the orbital magnetization in periodic systems. The derivation is generally valid for insulators with or without a Chern number, for metals at zero or finite temperatures, and at weak as well as strong magnetic fields. The formula is shown to be valid in the presence of electron-electron interaction, provided the one-electron energies and wave functions are calculated self-consistently within the framework of the exact current and spin density functional theory. 
0704.03825	Word length in surface groups with characteristic generating sets	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:Danny Calegari	 Abstract: A subset of a group is characteristic if it is invariant under every automorphism of the group. We study word length in fundamental groups of closed hyperbolic surfaces with respect to characteristic generating sets consisting of a finite union of orbits of the automorphism group, and show that the translation length of any element with nonzero crossing number is positive, and bounded below by a constant depending only (and explicitly) on a bound on the crossing numbers of generating elements. This answers a question of B. Farb. 
0704.03826	Non-coding DNA programs express adaptation and its universal law	Genomics (q-bio.GN)	Authors:Mark Ya. Azbel	 Abstract: Significant fraction (98.5% in humans) of most animal genomes is non- coding dark matter. Its largely unknown function (1-5) is related to programming (rather than to spontaneous mutations) of accurate adaptation to rapidly changing environment. Programmed adaptation to the same universal law for non-competing animals from anaerobic yeast to human is revealed in the study of their extensively quantified mortality (6-21). Adaptation of animals with removed non-coding DNA fractions may specify their contribution to genomic programming. Emergence of new adaptation programs and their (non-Mendelian) heredity may be studied in antibiotic mini-extinctions (22-24). On a large evolutionary scale rapid universal adaptation was vital for survival, and evolved, in otherwise lethal for diverse species major mass extinctions (25-28). Evolutionary and experimental data corroborate these conclusions (6-21, 29-32). Universal law implies certain biological universality of diverse species, thus quantifies applicability of animal models to humans). Genomic adaptation programming calls for unusual approach to its study and implies unanticipated perspectives, in particular, directed biological changes. 
0704.03827	Neutrino mixing matrix in the 3-3-1 model with heavy leptons and $A_4$  symmetry	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Furong Yin	 Abstract: We study the lepton sector in the model based on the local gauge group $SU(3)_c\otimes SU(3)_L\otimes U(1)_X$ which do not contain particles with exotic electric charges. The seesaw mechanism and discrete $A_4$ symmetry are introduced into the model to understand why neutrinos are especially light and the observed pattern of neutrino mixing. The model provides a method for obtaining the tri-bimaximal mixing matrix in the leading order. A non-zero mixing angle $V_{e3}$ presents in the modified mixing matrix. 
0704.03828	An integral gated mode single photon detector at telecom wavelengths	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Zhengjun Wei, Peng Zhou, Xiaobao Liu, Jindong Wang, Changjun Liao, Jianping Guo, Rihao Li, Songhao Liu	 Abstract: We demonstrate an integral gated mode single photon detector at telecom wavelengths. The charge number of an avalanche pulse rather than the peak current is monitored for single-photon detection. The transient spikes in conventional gated mode operation are canceled completely by integrating, which enables one to improve the performance of single photon detector greatly with the same avalanche photodiode. This method has achieved a detection efficiency of 29.9% at the dark count probability per gate equal to 5.57E-6/gate (1.11E-6/ns) at 1550nm. 
0704.03829	Gauge symmetry in Kitaev-type spin models and index theorems on odd  manifolds	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Yue Yu	 Abstract: We construct an exactly soluble spin-$\frac{1}2$ model on a honeycomb lattice, which is a generalization of Kitaev model. The topological phases of the system are analyzed by study of the ground state sector of this model, the vortex-free states. Basically, there are two phases, A phase and B phase. The behaviors of both A and B phases may be studied by mapping the ground state sector into a general p-wave paired states of spinless fermions with tunable pairing parameters on a square lattice. In this p-wave paired state theory, the A phase is shown to be the strong paired phase, an insulating phase. The B phase may be either gapped or gapless determined by the generalized inversion symmetry is broken or not. The gapped B is the weak pairing phase described by either the Moore-Read Pfaffian state of the spinless fermions or anti-Pfaffian state of holes depending on the sign of the next nearest neighbor hopping amplitude. A phase transition between Pfaffian and anti-Pfaffian states are found in the gapped B phase. Furthermore, we show that there is a hidden SU(2) gauge symmetry in our model. In the gapped B phase, the ground state has a non-trivial topological number, the spectral first Chern number or the chiral central charge, which reflects the chiral anomaly of the edge state. We proved that the topological number is identified to the reduced eta-invariant and this anomaly may be cancelled by a bulk Wess-Zumino term of SO(3) group through an index theorem in 2+1 dimensions. 
0704.03830	Critical state analysis of orthogonal flux interactions in pinned  superconductors	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:A. Badía-Majós, C. López	 Abstract: We show that, based on the critical state model for flux-line pinning in hard superconductors, one can assess the magnetic moment relaxation induced by the oscillations of a perpendicular magnetic field. Our theory follows a recent proposal of using phenomenological 2D modeling for the description of crossed field dynamics in high-T$_c$ superconductors [{\tt arXiv:cond-mat/0703330}]. Stationary regimes with either saturation to metastable configurations, or complete decay to the thermodynamic equilibrium are obtained. The transition between both types of response is related to the disappearance of a flux free core within the sample. As a common feature, a step-like dependence in the time relaxation is predicted for both cases. The theory may be applied to long bars of arbitrary and non homogeneous cross section, under in-plane magnetic field processes. 
0704.03831	The Origin of the Young Stars in the Nucleus of M31	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. Chang, R. Murray-Clay, E. Chiang, E. Quataert	 Abstract: The triple nucleus of M31 consists of a population of old red stars in an eccentric disk (P1 and P2) and another population of younger A stars in a circular disk (P3) around M31's central supermassive black hole (SMBH). We argue that P1 and P2 determine the maximal radial extent of the younger A star population and provide the gas that fueled the starburst that generated P3. The eccentric stellar disk creates an $m=1$ non-axisymmetric perturbation to the potential. This perturbed potential drives gas into the inner parsec around the SMBH, if the pattern speed of the eccentric stellar disk is $\Omega_p \lesssim 3-10 {\rm km s^{-1} pc^{-1}}$. We show that stellar mass loss from P1 and P2 is sufficient to create a gravitationally unstable gaseous disk of $\sim 10^5\Msun$ every $0.1-1$ Gyrs, consistent with the 200 Myr age of P3. Similar processes may act in other systems to produce very compact nuclear starbursts. 
0704.03832	Long Term Evolution of Magnetic Turbulence in Relativistic Collisionless  Shocks: Electron-Positron Plasmas	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. Chang, A. Spitkovsky, J. Arons	 Abstract: We study the long term evolution of magnetic fields generated by a collisionless relativistic $e^+e^-$ shock which is initially unmagnetized. Our 2D particle-in-cell numerical simulations show that downstream of such a Weibel-mediated shock, particle distributions are close to isotropic, relativistic Maxwellians, and the magnetic turbulence is highly intermittent spatially, with the non-propagating magnetic fields forming relatively isolated regions with transverse dimension $\sim 10-20$ skin depths. These structures decay in amplitude, with little sign of downstream merging. The fields start with magnetic energy density $\sim (0.1-0.2)$ of the upstream kinetic energy within the shock transition, but rapid downstream decay drives the fields to much smaller values, below $10^{-3}$ of equipartition after $10^3$ skin depths. In an attempt to construct a theory that follows field decay to these smaller values, we explore the hypothesis that the observed damping is a variant of Landau damping in an unmagnetized plasma. The model is based on the small value of the downstream magnetic energy density, which suggests that particle orbits are only weakly perturbed from straight line motion, if the turbulence is homogeneous. Using linear kinetic theory applied to electromagnetic fields in an isotropic, relativistic Maxwellian plasma, we find a simple analytic form for the damping rates, $\gamma_k$, in two and three dimensions for small amplitude, subluminous electromagnetic fields. We find that magnetic energy does damp due to phase mixing of current carrying particles as $(\omega_p t)^{-q}$ with $q \sim 1$. (abridged) 
0704.03833	Decoy State Quantum Key Distribution With Modified Coherent State	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Zhen-Qiang Yin, Zheng-Fu Han, Fang-Wen Sun, Guang-Can Guo	 Abstract: To beat PNS attack, decoy state quantum key distribution (QKD) based on coherent state has been studied widely. We present a decoy state QKD protocol with modified coherent state (MCS). By destruction quantum interference, MCS with fewer multi-photon events can be get, which may improve key bit rate and security distance of QKD. Through numerical simulation, we show about 2-dB increment on security distance for BB84 protocol. 
0704.03834	Observations of Comet C/LINEAR (2004B1) between2 and 3 AU heliocentric  distance	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Tanyu Bonev, Galin Borisov, Andon Kostov, Abedin Abedin, Gordana Apostolovska, Bonka Bilkina, Zahary Donchev, Violeta Ivanova, Vladimir Krumov, Yanko Nikolov, Evgeni Ovcharov, Vesselka Radeva, Ivaylo Stanev	 Abstract: We present R-band observations of comet C2004B1 obtained in the period June, 21 - August 20, 2006. The data have been reduced to surface brightness maps, light curves, and mean radial profiles of the coma. In two cases a decrease of the brightness was recorded, which lasted for several days. The brightness decrease was accompanied by morphological changes in the coma. 
0704.03835	Minimizing Unsatisfaction in Colourful Neighbourhoods	Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)	Authors:K. Y. Michael Wong, David Saad	 Abstract: Colouring sparse graphs under various restrictions is a theoretical problem of significant practical relevance. Here we consider the problem of maximizing the number of different colours available at the nodes and their neighbourhoods, given a predetermined number of colours. In the analytical framework of a tree approximation, carried out at both zero and finite temperatures, solutions obtained by population dynamics give rise to estimates of the threshold connectivity for the incomplete to complete transition, which are consistent with those of existing algorithms. The nature of the transition as well as the validity of the tree approximation are investigated. 
0704.03836	Japanese VLBI Network observations of radio-loud narrow-line Seyfert 1  galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Akihiro Doi, Kenta Fujisawa, Makoto Inoue, Kiyoaki Wajima, Hiroshi Nagai, Keiichiro Harada, Kousuke Suematsu, Asao Habe, Mareki Honma, Noriyuki Kawaguchi, Eiji Kawai, Hideyuki Kobayashi, Yasuhiro Koyama, Hiromitsu Kuboki, Yasuhiro Murata, Toshihiro Omodaka, Kazuo Sorai, Hiroshi Sudou, Hiroshi Takaba, Kazuhiro Takashima, Koji Takeda, Sayaka Tamura, Ken-ichi Wakamatsu	 Abstract: We performed phase-reference very long baseline interferometry (VLBI) observations on five radio-loud narrow-line Seyfert 1 galaxies (NLS1s) at 8.4 GHz with the Japanese VLBI Network (JVN). Each of the five targets (RXS J08066+7248, RXS J16290+4007, RXS J16333+4718, RXS J16446+2619, and B3 1702+457) in milli-Jansky levels were detected and unresolved in milli-arcsecond resolutions, i.e., with brightness temperatures higher than 10^7 K. The nonthermal processes of active galactic nuclei (AGN) activity, rather than starbursts, are predominantly responsible for the radio emissions from these NLS1s. Out of the nine known radio-loud NLS1s, including the ones chosen for this study, we found that the four most radio-loud objects exclusively have inverted spectra. This suggests a possibility that these NLS1s are radio-loud due to Doppler beaming, which can apparently enhance both the radio power and the spectral frequency. 
0704.03837	Observation of two-dimensional surface solitons in anisotropic waveguide  arrays	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:A. Szameit, Y. V. Kartashov, F. Dreisow, T. Pertsch, S. Nolte, A. Tunnermann, L. Torner	 Abstract: We report on the experimental observation of two-dimensional surface waves localized at the edge or in the corner of femtosecond laser-written waveguide arrays in fused silica. Increasing the power of the input beam allows one to observe a clear transition from a linear diffraction pattern to localized nonlinear surface states, which can exist at the interface only above a certain power threshold. 
0704.03838	Neutrino Mixing and Leptogenesis in Type-II Seesaw Scenarios with  Left-Right Symmetry	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Wei Chao, Shu Luo, Zhi-zhong Xing	 Abstract: We propose two Type-II seesaw scenarios for the neutrino mass matrix in the left-right symmetric model, in which the Higgs triplet Yukawa coupling matrix takes the appealing Friedberg-Lee texture. We show that the nearly tri-bimaximal neutrino mixing pattern, which is especially favored by current neutrino oscillation data, can be obtained from both scenarios. We also show that the cosmological baryon number asymmetry can naturally be interpreted in these two scenarios via the flavor-independent leptogenesis mechanism. 
0704.03839	Multiband optical surface brightness profile decompositions of the  Seyfert galaxies Mrk 79 and NGC 5548	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Boyko Mihov, Lyuba Slavcheva-Mihova	 Abstract: We present preliminary results of the Johnson-Cousins (U)BVRI surface brightness profile decompositions of the Seyfert galaxies Mrk 79 and NGC 5548. The profiles were modelled as a sum of a Gaussian law for the nucleus, a Sersic law for the bulge and an exponent law for the disk. A flat bar was added to the model profile of Mrk 79. The parameters and the total magnitudes of the structural components were derived. 
0704.03840	Produit d'entrelacement et action triangulaire d'algèbres de Lie	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Barben-Jean Coffi-Nketsia, Labib Haddad	 Abstract: Formal actions of Lie algebras over vector spaces are introduced in a purely algebraic way, as a mimic of infinitesimal operations of Banach Lie algebras over Banach analytic manifolds. In analogy with the case of abstract groups, complete wreath products and triangular actions are then defined for Lie algebras acting "en cascade" over vector spaces. Finally, a Kaloujnine-Krasner type theorem for Lie algebra extensions is proved. ----- En mimant les lois d'op\'erations infinit\'esimales des alg\`ebres de Lie sur les vari\'et\'e s analytiques banachiques, on introduit de mani\`ere purement alg\`ebrique la notion d'action formelle d'une alg\`ebre de Lie sur un espace vectoriel. Ensuite, par analogie avec le cas des groupes abstraits, et en faisant op\'erer les alg\`ebres de Lie "en cascade", on d\'efinit produit d'entrelacement ("wreath product") et action triangulaire pour les alg\`ebres de Lie. On d\'emontre enfin un th\'eor\`eme du type Kaloujnine-Krasner pour les extensions d'alg\`ebres de Lie. 
0704.03841	The HARPS search for southern extra-solar planets XI. Super-Earths (5 &  8 M_Earth) in a 3-planet system	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:S. Udry (1), X. Bonfils (2), X. Delfosse (3), T. Forveille (3), M. Mayor (1), C. Perrier (3), F. Bouchy (4), C. Lovis (1), F. Pepe (1), D. Queloz (1), J.-L. Bertaux (5) ((1) Observatoire de Geneve, Université de Geneve, Switzerland, (2) Centro de Astronomia e Astrofisica da Universidade de Lisboa, Portugal, (3) Laboratoire d'Astrophysique, Observatoire de Grenoble, Universite J. Fourier, France, (4) Institut d'Astrophysique de Paris, France, (5) Service d'Aéronomie du CNRS/IPSL, Verrières-le-Buisson, France)	 Abstract: This Letter reports on the detection of two super-Earth planets in the Gl581 system, already known to harbour a hot Neptune. One of the planets has a mass of 5 M_Earth and resides at the ``warm'' edge of the habitable zone of the star. It is thus the known exoplanet which most resembles our own Earth. The other planet has a 7.7 M_Earth mass and orbits at 0.25 AU from the star, close to the ``cold'' edge of the habitable zone. These two new light planets around an M3 dwarf further confirm the formerly tentative statistical trend for i) many more very low-mass planets being found around M dwarfs than around solar-type stars and ii) low-mass planets outnumbering Jovian planets around M dwarfs. 
0704.03842	MMT observations of new extremely metal-poor emission-line galaxies in  the Sloan Digital Sky Survey	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Y. I. Izotov (1), T. X. Thuan (2) ((1) Main Astronomical Observatory, Kyiv, Ukraine, (2) University of Virginia, Charlottesville, USA)	 Abstract: We present 6.5-meter MMT spectrophotometry of 20 H II regions in 13 extremely metal-poor emission-line galaxies selected from the Data Release 5 of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey to have [O III] 4959/Hbeta < 1 and [N II] 6583/Hbeta < 0.05. The electron temperature-sensitive emission line [O III] 4363 is detected in 13 H II regions allowing a direct abundance determination. The oxygen abundance in the remaining H II regions is derived using a semi-empirical method. The oxygen abundance of the galaxies in our sample ranges from 12+logO/H ~ 7.1 to ~ 7.8, with 10 H II regions having an oxygen abundance lower than 7.5. The lowest oxygen abundances, 12+logO/H = 7.14+/-0.03 and 7.13+/-0.07, are found in two H II regions of the blue compact dwarf galaxy SDSSJ0956+2849=DDO 68, making it the second most-metal deficient emission-line galaxy known, after SBS 0335-052W. 
0704.03843	Characterizing Sparse Graphs by Map Decompositions	Combinatorics (math.CO)	Authors:Ruth Haas, Audrey Lee, Ileana Streinu, Louis Theran	 Abstract: A {\bf map} is a graph that admits an orientation of its edges so that each vertex has out-degree exactly 1. We characterize graphs which admit a decomposition into $k$ edge-disjoint maps after: (1) the addition of {\it any} $\ell$ edges; (2) the addition of {\it some} $\ell$ edges. These graphs are identified with classes of {\it sparse} graphs; the results are also given in matroidal terms. 
0704.03844	Unstable structures definable in o-minimal theories	Logic (math.LO)	Authors:Assaf Hasson, Alf Onshuus	 Abstract: Let M be an o-minimal structure with elimination of imaginaries, N an unstable structure definable in M. Then there exists X, interpretable in N, such that X with all the structure induced from N is o-minimal. In particular X is linearly ordered. As part of the proof we show: Theorem 1: If the M-dimenson of N is 1 then any 1-N-type is either strongly stable or finite by o-minimal. Theorem 2: If N is N-minimal then it is 1-M-dimensional. 
0704.03845	On the interaction of a charge with a thin plasma sheet	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:M. Bordag	 Abstract: The interaction of the electromagnetic field with a two dimensional plasma sheet intended to describe the pi-electrons of a carbon nano-tube or a $C_{60}$ molecule is investigated. By integrating out first the displacement field of the plasma or first the electromagnetic field different representations for quantities like the Casimir energy are derived which are shown to be consistent with one another. Starting from the covariant gauge for the electromagnetic field it is shown that the matching conditions to which the presence of the plasma sheet can be reduced are different from the commonly used ones. The difference in the treatments does not show up in the Casimir force between two parallel sheets, but it is present in the Casimir-Polder force between a charge or a neutral atom and a sheet. At once, since the plasma sheet is a regularization of the conductor boundary conditions, this sheds light on the difference in physics found earlier in the realization of conductor boundary conditions as 'thin' or 'thick' boundary conditions in Phys.Rev.D70(2004)085010. 
0704.03846	Vesicle dynamics in elongation flow: Wrinkling instability and bud  formation	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Vasiliy Kantsler, Enrico Segre, Victor Steinberg	 Abstract: We present experimental results on the relaxation dynamics of vesicles subjected to a time-dependent elongation flow. We observed and characterized a new instability, which results in the formation of higher order modes of the vesicle shape (wrinkles), after a switch in the direction of the gradient of the velocity. This surprising generation of membrane wrinkles can be explained by the appearance of a negative surface tension during the vesicle deflation, due to compression in a sign-switching transient. Moreover, the formation of buds in the vesicle membrane has been observed in the vicinity of the dynamical transition point. 
0704.03847	Analytical results for 2-D non-rectilinear waveguides based on the  Green's function	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Giulio Ciraolo, Rolando Magnanini	 Abstract: We consider the problem of wave propagation for a 2-D rectilinear optical waveguide which presents some perturbation. We construct a mathematical framework to study such a problem and prove the existence of a solution for the case of small imperfections. Our results are based on the knowledge of a Green's function for the rectilinear case. 
0704.03848	Scaling Properties, Fractals, and the Renormalisation Group Approach to  Percolation	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:D. Stauffer	 Abstract: For Encyclopedia of Complexity and Systems Science (Springer Verlag). No abstract. I. Definition and Introduction II. Methods III. Quantities and Exponents IV. Fractal Dimension; Incipient Infinite Cluster V. Simple Renormalisation Group VI. Future Directions 
0704.03849	Phase Transitions on Fractals and Networks	Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)	Authors:D. Stauffer	 Abstract: For Encyclopedia of Complexist and System Science No abstract given I. Definition and Introduction II. Ising Model III. Fractals IV. Diffusion on Fractals V. Ising Model on Fractals VI. Other Subjects ? VII. Networks VIII. Future Directions 
0704.03850	Derivations and skew derivations of the Grassmann algebras	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:V. V. Bavula	 Abstract: Surprisingly, skew derivations rather than ordinary derivations are more basic (important) object in study of the Grassmann algebras. Let $\L_n = K\lfloor x_1, ..., x_n\rfloor$ be the Grassmann algebra over a commutative ring $K$ with ${1/2}\in K$, and $\d$ be a skew $K$-derivation of $\L_n$. It is proved that $\d$ is a unique sum $\d = \d^{ev} +\d^{od}$ of an even and odd skew derivation. Explicit formulae are given for $\d^{ev}$ and $\d^{od}$ via the elements $\d (x_1), ..., \d (x_n)$. It is proved that the set of all even skew derivations of $\L_n$ coincides with the set of all the inner skew derivations. Similar results are proved for derivations of $\L_n$. In particular, $\Der_K(\L_n)$ is a faithful but not simple $\Aut_K(\L_n)$-module (where $K$ is reduced and $n\geq 2$). All differential and skew differential ideals of $\L_n$ are found. It is proved that the set of generic normal elements of $\L_n$ that are not units forms a single $\Aut_K(\L_n)$-orbit (namely, $\Aut_K(\L_n)x_1$) if $n$ is even and two orbits (namely, $\Aut_K(\L_n)x_1$ and $\Aut_K(\L_n)(x_1+x_2... x_n)$) if $n$ is odd. 
0704.03851	The Statistics of Supersonic Isothermal Turbulence	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Alexei G. Kritsuk, Michael L. Norman, Paolo Padoan, Rick Wagner	 Abstract: We present results of large-scale three-dimensional simulations of supersonic Euler turbulence with the piecewise parabolic method and multiple grid resolutions up to 2048^3 points. Our numerical experiments describe non-magnetized driven turbulent flows with an isothermal equation of state and an rms Mach number of 6. We discuss numerical resolution issues and demonstrate convergence, in a statistical sense, of the inertial range dynamics in simulations on grids larger than 512^3 points. The simulations allowed us to measure the absolute velocity scaling exponents for the first time. The inertial range velocity scaling in this strongly compressible regime deviates substantially from the incompressible Kolmogorov laws. The slope of the velocity power spectrum, for instance, is -1.95 compared to -5/3 in the incompressible case. The exponent of the third-order velocity structure function is 1.28, while in incompressible turbulence it is known to be unity. We propose a natural extension of Kolmogorov's phenomenology that takes into account compressibility by mixing the velocity and density statistics and preserves the Kolmogorov scaling of the power spectrum and structure functions of the density-weighted velocity v=\rho^{1/3}u. The low-order statistics of v appear to be invariant with respect to changes in the Mach number. For instance, at Mach 6 the slope of the power spectrum of v is -1.69, and the exponent of the third-order structure function of v is unity. We also directly measure the mass dimension of the "fractal" density distribution in the inertial subrange, D_m = 2.4, which is similar to the observed fractal dimension of molecular clouds and agrees well with the cascade phenomenology. 
0704.03852	Fluidization of a vertically oscillated shallow granular layer	Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)	Authors:Jennifer Kreft, Matthias Schroeter, Jack B. Swift, Harry L. Swinney	 Abstract: Molecular dynamics simulations are used to study fluidization of a vertically vibrated, three-dimensional shallow granular layer. As the container acceleration is increased above g, the granular temperature and root mean square particle displacement increase, gradually fluidizing the layer. For nearly elastic particles, or low shaking frequencies, or small layer depths, the end of the fluidization process is marked by an abrupt increase in the granular temperature and rms particle displacement. The layer is then fully fluidized since macroscopic, fluid-like phenomena such as convection rolls and surface waves are observed. Increasing the total dissipation (by either decreasing the restitution coefficient or increasing the total number of particles) decreases the increase in granular temperature and rms particle displacement at fluidization, and shifts the increase to higher accelerations. Increasing the frequency also decreases the magnitude of the jump, and shifts the change to lower accelerations. 
0704.03853	Fluorescence microscopy of single autofluorescent proteins for cellular  biology	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Laurent Cognet (CPMOH), Françoise Coussen (PCS), Daniel Choquet (PCS), Brahim Lounis (CPMOH)	 Abstract: In this paper we review the applicability of autofluorescent proteins for single-molecule imaging in biology. The photophysical characteristics of several mutants of the Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) and those of DsRed are compared and critically discussed for their use in cellular biology. The alternative use of two-photon excitation at the single-molecule level or Fluorescence Correlation Spectroscopy is envisaged for the study of individual autofluorescent proteins. Single-molecule experiments performed in live cells using eGFP and preferably eYFP fusion proteins are reviewed. Finally, the first use at the single-molecule level of citrine, a more photostable variant of the eYFP is reported when fused to a receptor for neurotransmitter in live cells. 
0704.03854	Multiple Routes for Glutamate Receptor Trafficking: Surface Diffusion  and Membrane Traffic Cooperate to Bring Receptors to Synapses	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Laurent Cognet (CPMOH), Laurent Groc (PCS), Brahim Lounis (CPMOH), Daniel Choquet (PCS)	 Abstract: Trafficking of glutamate receptors into and out of synapses is critically involved in the plasticity of excitatory synaptic transmission. Endocytosis and exocytosis of receptors have initially been thought to account alone for this trafficking. However, membrane proteins also traffic through surface lateral diffusion in the plasma membrane. We describe developments in electrophysiological and optical approaches that have allowed for the real time measurement of glutamate receptor surface trafficking in live neurons. These include (i) specific imaging of surface receptors using a pH sensitive fluorescent protein, (ii) design of a photoactivable drug to inactivate locally surface receptors and monitor electrophysiologically their recovery, and (iii)application of single molecule fluorescence microscopy to directly track the movement of individual surface receptors with nanometer resolution inside and outside synapses. Altogether, these approaches have demonstrated that glutamate receptors diffuse at high rates in the neuronal membrane and suggest a key role for surface diffusion in the regulation of receptor numbers at synapses. 
0704.03855	Single-molecule imaging of the H-ras membrane-anchor reveals domains in  the cytoplasmic leaflet of the cell membrane	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Piet H M Lommerse, Gerhard A Blab, Laurent Cognet, Gregory S Harms, B Ewa Snaar-Jagalska, Herman P Spaink, Thomas Schmidt	 Abstract: In the last decade evidence has accumulated that small domains of 50-700 nm in diameter are located in the exoplasmic leaflet of the plasma membrane. Most of these domains supposedly consist of specific sets of lipids and proteins, and are believed to coordinate signal transduction cascades. Whether similar domains are also present in the cytoplasmic leaflet of the plasma membrane is unclear so far. To investigate the presence of cytoplasmic leaflet domains, the H-Ras membrane-targeting sequence was fused to the C-terminus of the enhanced yellow fluorescent protein. Using single-molecule fluorescence microscopy, trajectories of individual molecules diffusing in the cytoplasmic leaflet of the plasma membrane were recorded. From these trajectories, the diffusion of individual membrane-anchored enhanced yellow fluorescent protein molecules was studied in live cells on timescales from 5 to 200 ms. The results show that the diffusion of 30-40% of the molecules is constrained in domains with a typical size of 200 nm. Neither breakdown of actin nor cholesterol extraction changed the domain characteristics significantly, indicating that the observed domains may not be related to the membrane domains identified so far. 
0704.03856	On the effect of emission lines on the UBVR photometry	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Skopal	 Abstract: We investigate the effect on the U, B, V, Rc and Rj magnitudes of the removal of emission lines from a spectrum. We determined "Dm" corrections from the ratio of fluxes with and without emission lines, transmitted from the object through the photometric filter. An exact and a simplified approach for operative use were applied. The effect was demonstrated for classical symbiotic stars, symbiotic novae and the classical nova V1974 Cyg. It was found that about 20-30, 30-40, 10 and 26/20 percents of the observed flux in the U, B, V and Rc/Rj filter, respectively, is radiated in the emission lines of the investigated classical symbiotic stars. The largest effect was found for symbiotic novae (RR Tel and V1016 Cyg) and the classical nova V1974 Cyg at 210 days (in average of 74, 79, 56 and 66/60 percents). Examples for practical application are suggested. 
0704.03857	Photothermal heterodyne imaging of individual nonfluorescent  nanoclusters and nanocrystals	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Stéphane Berciaud (CPMOH), Laurent Cognet (CPMOH), Gerhard A Blab (CPMOH), Brahim Lounis (CPMOH)	 Abstract: We introduce a new, highly sensitive, and simple heterodyne optical method for imaging individual nonfluorescent nanoclusters and nanocrystals. A 2 order of magnitude improvement of the signal is achieved compared to previous methods. This allows for the unprecedented detection of individual small absorptive objects such as metallic clusters (of 67 atoms) or nonluminescent semiconductor nanocrystals. The measured signals are in agreement with a calculation based on the scattering field theory from a photothermal-induced modulated index of refraction profile around the nanoparticle. 
0704.03858	Direct imaging of lateral movements of AMPA receptors inside synapses	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Catherine Tardin (CPMOH), Laurent Cognet (CPMOH), Cécile Bats (PCS), Brahim Lounis (CPMOH), Daniel Choquet (PCS)	 Abstract: Trafficking of AMPA receptors in and out of synapses is crucial for synaptic plasticity. Previous studies have focused on the role of endo/exocytosis processes or that of lateral diffusion of extra-synaptic receptors. We have now directly imaged AMPAR movements inside and outside synapses of live neurons using single-molecule fluorescence microscopy. Inside individual synapses, we found immobile and mobile receptors, which display restricted diffusion. Extra-synaptic receptors display free diffusion. Receptors could also exchange between these membrane compartments through lateral diffusion. Glutamate application increased both receptor mobility inside synapses and the fraction of mobile receptors present in a juxtasynaptic region. Block of inhibitory transmission to favor excitatory synaptic activity induced a transient increase in the fraction of mobile receptors and a decrease in the proportion of juxtasynaptic receptors. Altogether, our data show that rapid exchange of receptors between a synaptic and extra-synaptic localization occurs through regulation of receptor diffusion inside synapses. 
0704.03859	Density waves and supersolidity in rapidly rotating atomic Fermi gases	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Gunnar Moller, Nigel R. Cooper	 Abstract: We study theoretically the low-temperature phases of a two-component atomic Fermi gas with attractive s-wave interactions under conditions of rapid rotation. We find that, in the extreme quantum limit, when all particles occupy the lowest Landau level, the normal state is unstable to the formation of "charge" density wave (CDW) order. At lower rotation rates, when many Landau levels are occupied, we show that the low-temperature phases can be supersolids, involving both CDW and superconducting order. 
0704.03860	C_{0}-Hilbert Modules	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Yun-Su Kim	 Abstract: We provide the definition and fundamental properties of algebraic elements with respect to an operator satisfying hypothesis (h). Furthermore, we analyze Hilbert modules using C_0-operators relative to a bounded finitely connected region Omega in the complex plane. 
0704.03861	Pinned Low Energy Electronic Excitation in Metal Exchanged Vanadium  Oxide Nanoscrolls	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:J. Cao, J. L. Musfeldt, S. Mazumdar, N. Chernova, M. S. Whittingham	 Abstract: We measured the optical properties of mixed valent vanadium oxide nanoscrolls and their metal exchanged derivatives in order to investigate the charge dynamics in these compounds. In contrast to the prediction of a metallic state for the metal exchanged derivatives within a rigid band model, we find that the injected charges in Mn$^{2+}$ exchanged vanadium oxide nanoscrolls are pinned. A low-energy electronic excitation associated with the pinned carriers appears in the far infrared and persists at low temperature, suggesting that the nanoscrolls are weak metals in their bulk form, dominated by inhomogeneous charge disproportionation and Madelung energy effects. 
0704.03862	An Integrated Human-Computer System for Controlling Interstate Disputes	Applications (stat.AP)	Authors:Tshilidzi Marwala, Monica Lagazio, Thando Tettey	 Abstract: In this paper we develop a scientific approach to control inter-country conflict. This system makes use of a neural network and a feedback control approach. It was found that by controlling the four controllable inputs: Democracy, Dependency, Allies and Capability simultaneously, all the predicted dispute outcomes could be avoided. Furthermore, it was observed that controlling a single input Dependency or Capability also avoids all the predicted conflicts. When the influence of each input variable on conflict is assessed, Dependency, Capability, and Democracy emerge as key variables that influence conflict. 
0704.03863	Fano-Kondo effect through two-level system based on quantum dots	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Tetsufumi Tanamoto, Yoshifumi Nishi	 Abstract: We theoretically study the Fano-Kondo effect in a triple quantum dot (QD) system where two QDs constitute a two-level system and the other QD works in a detector with electrodes. We found that the Fano dip is clearly modulated by strongly coupled QDs in a two-level system and a slow detector with no interacting QD. This setup suggests a new method of reading out qubit states. 
0704.03864	A converse to the Second Whitehead Lemma	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:Pasha Zusmanovich	 Abstract: We show that finite-dimensional Lie algebras over a field of characteristic zero such that the second cohomology group in every finite-dimensional module vanishes, are, essentially, semisimple. 
0704.03865	Multicriticality of the (2+1)-dimensional gonihedric model: A  realization of the (d,m)=(3,2) Lifshitz point	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Yoshihiro Nishiyama (Okayama University)	 Abstract: Multicriticality of the gonihedric model in 2+1 dimensions is investigated numerically. The gonihedric model is a fully frustrated Ising magnet with the finely tuned plaquette-type (four-body and plaquette-diagonal) interactions, which cancel out the domain-wall surface tension. Because the quantum-mechanical fluctuation along the imaginary-time direction is simply ferromagnetic, the criticality of the (2+1)-dimensional gonihedric model should be an anisotropic one; that is, the respective critical indices of real-space (\perp) and imaginary-time (\parallel) sectors do not coincide. Extending the parameter space to control the domain-wall surface tension, we analyze the criticality in terms of the crossover (multicritical) scaling theory. By means of the numerical diagonalization for the clusters with N\le 28 spins, we obtained the correlation-length critical indices (\nu_\perp,\nu_\parallel)=(0.45(10),1.04(27)), and the crossover exponent \phi=0.7(2). Our results are comparable to (\nu_{\perp},\nu_{\parallel})=(0.482,1.230), and \phi=0.688 obtained by Diehl and Shpot for the (d,m)=(3,2) Lifshitz point with the \epsilon-expansion method up to O(\epsilon^2). 
0704.03866	Sharp $L^1$ estimates for singular transport equations	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Sergiu Klainerman, Igor Rodnianski	 Abstract: We provide $L^1$ estimates for a class of transport equations containing singular integral operators. While our main application is for a specific problem in General Relativity we believe that the phenomenon which our result illustrates is of a more general interest. 
0704.03867	Role of Particle Interactions in the Feshbach Conversion of Fermion  Atoms to Bosonic Molecules	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Jie Liu, Li-Bin Fu, Bin Liu, Biao Wu	 Abstract: We investigate the Feshbach conversion of fermion atomic pairs to condensed boson molecules with a microscopic model that accounts the repulsive interactions among all the particles involved. We find that the conversion efficiency is enhanced by the interaction between boson molecules while suppressed by the interactions between fermion atoms and between atom and molecule. In certain cases, the combined effect of these interactions leads to a ceiling of less than 100% on the conversion efficiency even in the adiabatic limit. Our model predicts a non-monotonic dependence of the efficiency on mean atomic density. Our theory agrees well with recent experiments on $^6$Li and $^{40}$K. 
0704.03868	An effective many-body theory for strongly interacting polar molecules	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Daw-Wei Wang	 Abstract: We derive a general effective many-body theory for bosonic polar molecules in strong interaction regime, which cannot be correctly described by previous theories within the first Born approximation. The effective Hamiltonian has additional interaction terms, which surprisingly reduces the anisotropic features of dipolar interaction near the shape resonance regime. In the 2D system with dipole moment perpendicular to the plane, we find that the phonon dispersion scales as $\sqrt{|\bfp|}$ in the low momentum ($\bfp$) limit, showing the same low energy properties as a 2D charged Bose gas with Coulomb ($1/r$) interactions. 
0704.03869	Evaluation of Exchange Interactions of the Spin Doughnut Mo_{75}V_{20}	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:S. Takemura, Y. Fukumoto	 Abstract: Magnetic properties of the spin doughnut Mo_{75}V_{20}, which is a frustrated magnetic cluster with twenty spins, are studied by using the finite-temperature Lanczos method. Our model Hamiltonian consists of one ten-spin ring and two five-spin rings with nearest-neighbor antiferromagnetic couplings J and J". The five-spin rings are coupled to the ten-spin ring by an antiferromagnetic exchange interaction J' so as to form isosceles triangles of one J-bond and two J'-bonds. Fitting the theoretical magnetic susceptibility with the experimental one measured by Muller et al., the exchange parameters are estimated as J=388 K, J'=163 K and J"=81 K. The most interesting feature of this system is that the two five-spin rings behave like two free-spins at low temperatures in despite of J'>J". We also calculate temperature dependence of the specific heat, and find three peaks at T sim J, J" and J'/100. 
0704.03870	Effects of an oscillating field on pattern formation in a ferromagnetic  thin film: Analysis of patterns traveling at a low velocity	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Kazue Kudo, Katsuhiro Nakamura	 Abstract: Magnetic domain patterns under an oscillating field is studied theoretically by using a simple Ising-like model. We propose two ways to investigate the effects of the oscillating field. The first one leads to a model in which rapidly oscillating terms are averaged out, and the model can explain the existence of the maximum amplitude of the field for the appearance of patterns. The second one leads to a model that includes the delay of the response to the field, and the model suggests the existence of a traveling pattern which moves very slowly compared with the time scale of the driving field. 
0704.03871	Effective tuning of exciton polarization splitting in coupled quantum  dots	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Jia-Lin Zhu, Dong Xu	 Abstract: The polarization splitting of the exciton ground state in two laterally coupled quantum dots under an in-plane electric field is investigated and its effective tuning is designed. It is found that there are significant Stark effect and anticrossing in energy levels. Due to coupling between inter- and intra-dot states, the absolute value of polarization splitting is significantly reduced, and it could be tuned to zero by the electric field for proper inter-dot separations. Our scheme is interesting for the research on the quantum dots-based entangled-photon source. 
0704.03872	The integrals in Gradshteyn and Rhyzik. Part 1: A family of logarithmic  integrals	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Victor H. Moll	 Abstract: We present the evaluation of a family of logarithmic integrals. This provides a unified proof of several formulas in the classical table of integrals by I. S. Gradshteyn and I. M. Rhyzik. 
0704.03873	The integrals in Gradshteyn and Rhyzik. Part 2: Elementary logarithmic  integrals	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Victor H. Moll	 Abstract: We describe methods to evaluate elementary logarithmic integrals. The integrand is the product of a rational function and a linear polynomial in ln x. 
0704.03874	Enhanced Kondo Effect in an Electron System Dynamically Coupled with  Local Optical Phonon	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Takashi Hotta	 Abstract: We discuss Kondo behavior of a conduction electron system coupled with local optical phonon by analyzing the Anderson-Holstein model with the use of a numerical renormalization group (NRG) method. There appear three typical regions due to the balance between Coulomb interaction $U_{\rm ee}$ and phonon-mediated attraction $U_{\rm ph}$. For $U_{\rm ee}>U_{\rm ph}$, we observe the standard Kondo effect concerning spin degree of freedom. Since the Coulomb interaction is effectively reduced as $U_{\rm ee}-U_{\rm ph}$, the Kondo temperature $T_{\rm K}$ is increased when $U_{\rm ph}$ is increased. On the other hand, for $U_{\rm ee}<U_{\rm ph}$, there occurs the Kondo effect concerning charge degree of freedom, since vacant and double occupied states play roles of pseudo-spins. Note that in this case, $T_{\rm K}$ is decreased with the increase of $U_{\rm ph}$. Namely, $T_{\rm K}$ should be maximized for $U_{\rm ee} \approx U_{\rm ph}$. Then, we analyze in detail the Kondo behavior at $U_{\rm ee}=U_{\rm ph}$, which is found to be explained by the polaron Anderson model with reduced hybridization of polaron and residual repulsive interaction among polarons. By comparing the NRG results of the polaron Anderson model with those of the original Anderson-Holstein model, we clarify the Kondo behavior in the competing region of $U_{\rm ee} \approx U_{\rm ph}$. 
0704.03875	Controlled Lagrangians and Stabilization of Discrete Mechanical Systems  I	Optimization and Control (math.OC)	Authors:Anthony M. Bloch, Melvin Leok, Jerrold E. Marsden, Dmitry V. Zenkov	 Abstract: Controlled Lagrangian and matching techniques are developed for the stabilization of relative equilibria and equilibria of discrete mechanical systems with symmetry as well as broken symmetry. Interesting new phenomena arise in the controlled Lagrangian approach in the discrete context that are not present in the continuous theory. In particular, to make the discrete theory effective, one can make an appropriate selection of momentum levels or, alternatively, introduce a new parameter into the controlled Lagrangian to complete the kinetic matching procedure. Specifically, new terms in the controlled shape equation that are necessary for potential matching in the discrete setting are introduced. The theory is illustrated with the problem of stabilization of the cart-pendulum system on an incline. The paper also discusses digital and model predictive controllers. 
0704.03876	Groups generated by 3-state automata over a 2-letter alphabet, II	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:Ievgen Bondarenko, Rostislav Grigorchuk, Rostyslav Kravchenko, Yevgen Muntyan, Volodymyr Nekrashevych, Dmytro Savchuk, Zoran Sunic	 Abstract: Classification of groups generated by 3-state automata over a 2-letter alphabet started in the first paper (see this http URL) is continued. 
0704.03877	Relativistic diffusion equation from stochastic quantization	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:P.O. Kazinski	 Abstract: The new scheme of stochastic quantization is proposed. This quantization procedure is equivalent to the deformation of an algebra of observables in the manner of deformation quantization with an imaginary deformation parameter (the Planck constant). We apply this method to the models of nonrelativistic and relativistic particles interacting with an electromagnetic field. In the first case we establish the equivalence of such a quantization to the Fokker-Planck equation with a special force. The application of the proposed quantization procedure to the model of a relativistic particle results in a relativistic generalization of the Fokker-Planck equation in the coordinate space, which in the absence of the electromagnetic field reduces to the relativistic diffusion (heat) equation. The stationary probability distribution functions for a stochastically quantized particle diffusing under a barrier and a particle in the potential of a harmonic oscillator are derived. 
0704.03878	A Game-Theoretic Approach to Energy-Efficient Modulation in CDMA  Networks with Delay Constraints	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Farhad Meshkati, Andrea J. Goldsmith, H. Vincent Poor, Stuart C. Schwartz	 Abstract: A game-theoretic framework is used to study the effect of constellation size on the energy efficiency of wireless networks for M-QAM modulation. A non-cooperative game is proposed in which each user seeks to choose its transmit power (and possibly transmit symbol rate) as well as the constellation size in order to maximize its own utility while satisfying its delay quality-of-service (QoS) constraint. The utility function used here measures the number of reliable bits transmitted per joule of energy consumed, and is particularly suitable for energy-constrained networks. The best-response strategies and Nash equilibrium solution for the proposed game are derived. It is shown that in order to maximize its utility (in bits per joule), a user must choose the lowest constellation size that can accommodate the user's delay constraint. Using this framework, the tradeoffs among energy efficiency, delay, throughput and constellation size are also studied and quantified. The effect of trellis-coded modulation on energy efficiency is also discussed. 
0704.03879	Prospects of medium tomography using hard processes inside a soft medium	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Thorsten Renk	 Abstract: Hard processes leading to high transverse momentum hadron production are calculable in perturbative Quantum Chromodynamics (pQCD) for proton-proton collisions. In heavy-ion collisions, such processes occur as well, and due to a separation of scales are calculable on the level of the production of high p_T partons. These subsequently interact with the medium which originates from semi-hard and soft processes in the same collision before they hadronize. The presence of the medium thus modifies the momentum spectrum of outgoing partons and thus hard hadrons. The idea of jet tomography is to study this modification in order to learn about the medium density distribution. While this is a compelling idea, its practical application encounters some difficulties. In this paper, the capability of various observables to provide tomographic information about the medium is discussed and compared. 
0704.03880	Energy-Efficient Resource Allocation in Wireless Networks with  Quality-of-Service Constraints	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Farhad Meshkati, H. Vincent Poor, Stuart C. Schwartz, Radu V. Balan	 Abstract: A game-theoretic model is proposed to study the cross-layer problem of joint power and rate control with quality of service (QoS) constraints in multiple-access networks. In the proposed game, each user seeks to choose its transmit power and rate in a distributed manner in order to maximize its own utility while satisfying its QoS requirements. The user's QoS constraints are specified in terms of the average source rate and an upper bound on the average delay where the delay includes both transmission and queuing delays. The utility function considered here measures energy efficiency and is particularly suitable for wireless networks with energy constraints. The Nash equilibrium solution for the proposed non-cooperative game is derived and a closed-form expression for the utility achieved at equilibrium is obtained. It is shown that the QoS requirements of a user translate into a "size" for the user which is an indication of the amount of network resources consumed by the user. Using this competitive multiuser framework, the tradeoffs among throughput, delay, network capacity and energy efficiency are studied. In addition, analytical expressions are given for users' delay profiles and the delay performance of the users at Nash equilibrium is quantified. 
0704.03881	A Unified Approach to Energy-Efficient Power Control in Large CDMA  Systems	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Farhad Meshkati, Dongning Guo, H. Vincent Poor, Stuart C. Schwartz	 Abstract: A unified approach to energy-efficient power control is proposed for code-division multiple access (CDMA) networks. The approach is applicable to a large family of multiuser receivers including the matched filter, the decorrelator, the linear minimum mean-square error (MMSE) receiver, and the (nonlinear) optimal detectors. It exploits the linear relationship that has been shown to exist between the transmit power and the output signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio (SIR) in the large-system limit. It is shown that, for this family of receivers, when users seek to selfishly maximize their own energy efficiency, the Nash equilibrium is SIR-balanced. In addition, a unified power control (UPC) algorithm for reaching the Nash equilibrium is proposed. The algorithm adjusts the user's transmit powers by iteratively computing the large-system multiuser efficiency, which is independent of instantaneous spreading sequences. The convergence of the algorithm is proved for the matched filter, the decorrelator, and the MMSE receiver, and is demonstrated by means of simulation for an optimal detector. Moreover, the performance of the algorithm in finite-size systems is studied and compared with that of a conventional power control scheme, in which user powers depend on the instantaneous spreading sequences. 
0704.03882	Screening masses in the SU(3) pure gauge theory and universality	High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)	Authors:Rossella Falcone, Roberto Fiore, Mario Gravina, Alessandro Papa	 Abstract: We determine from Polyakov loop correlators the screening masses in the deconfined phase of the (3+1)d SU(3) pure gauge theory at finite temperature near the transition, for two different channels of angular momentum and parity. Their ratio is compared with that of the massive excitations with the same quantum numbers in the 3d 3-state Potts model in the broken phase near the transition point at zero magnetic field. Moreover we study the inverse decay length of the correlation between the real parts and between the imaginary parts of the Polyakov loop and compare the results with expectations from perturbation theory and mean-field Polyakov loop models. 
0704.03883	High-precision astrometry on the VLT/FORS1 at time scales of few days	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. F. Lazorenko, M. Mayor, M. Dominik, F. Pepe, D. Segransan, S. Udry	 Abstract: We investigate the accuracy of astrometric measurements with the VLT/FORS1 camera and consider potential applications. The study is based on two-epoch (2000 and 2002/2003) frame series of observations of a selected Galactic Bulge sky region that were obtained with FORS1 during four consecutive nights each. Reductions were carried out with a novel technique that eliminates atmospheric image motion and does not require a distinction between targets and reference objects. The positional astrometric precision was found to be limited only by the accuracy of the determination of the star photocentre, which is typically 200-300 microarcsec per single measurement for bright unsaturated stars B=18-19. Several statistical tests have shown that at time-scales of 1-4 nights the residual noise in measured positions is essentially a white noise with no systematic instrumental signature and no significant deviation from a Gaussian distribution. Some evidence of a good astrometric quality of the VLT for frames separated by two years has also been found. Our data show that the VLT with FORS1/2 cameras can be effectively used for astrometric observations of planetary microlensing events and other applications where a high accuracy is required, that is expected to reach 30-40 microarcsec for a series of 50 frames (one hours with R filter). 
0704.03884	Multisite campaign on the open cluster M67. III. Delta Scuti pulsations  in the blue stragglers	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:H. Bruntt, D. Stello, J. C. Suarez, T. Arentoft, T. R. Bedding, M. Y. Bouzid, Z. Csubry, T. H. Dall, Z. E. Dind, S. Frandsen, R. L. Gilliland, A. P. Jacob, H. R. Jensen, Y. B. Kang, S.-L. Kim, L. L. Kiss, H. Kjeldsen, J.-R. Koo, J.-A. Lee, C.-U. Lee, J. Nuspl, C. Sterken, R. Szabo	 Abstract: We have made an asteroseismic analysis of the variable blue stragglers in the open cluster M67. The data set consists of photometric time series from eight sites using nine 0.6-2.1 meter telescopes with a time baseline of 43 days. In two stars, EW Cnc and EX Cnc, we detect the highest number of frequencies (41 and 26) detected in delta Scuti stars belonging to a stellar cluster, and EW Cnc has the second highest number of frequencies detected in any delta Scuti star. We have computed a grid of pulsation models that take the effects of rotation into account. The distribution of observed and theoretical frequencies show that in a wide frequency range a significant fraction of the radial and non-radial low-degree modes are excited to detectable amplitudes. Despite the large number of observed frequencies we cannot constrain the fundamental parameters of the stars. To make progress we need to identify the degrees of some of the modes either from multi-colour photometry or spectroscopy. 
0704.03885	On Classification of Finite Dimensional Complex Filiform Leibniz  Algebras (Part 2)	Rings and Algebras (math.RA)	Authors:U. D. Bekbaev, I. S. Rakhimov	 Abstract: The paper is devoted to classification problem of finite dimensional complex none Lie filiform Leibniz algebras. Actually, the observations show there are two resources to get classification of filiform Leibniz algebras. The first of them is naturally graded none Lie filiform Leibniz algebras and the another one is naturally graded filiform Lie algebras. Using the first resource we get two disjoint classes of filiform Leibniz algebras. The present paper deals with the second of the above two classes, the first class has been considered in our previous paper. The algebraic classification here means to specify the representatives of the orbits, whereas the geometric classification is the problem of finding generic structural constants in the sense of algebraic geometry. Our main effort in this paper is the algebraic classification. We suggest here an algebraic method based on invariants. Utilizing this method for any given low dimensional case all filiform Leibniz algebras can be classified. Moreover, the results can be used for geometric classification of orbits of such algebras. 
0704.03886	A Note on Ontology and Ordinary Language	Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)	Authors:Walid S. Saba	 Abstract: We argue for a compositional semantics grounded in a strongly typed ontology that reflects our commonsense view of the world and the way we talk about it. Assuming such a structure we show that the semantics of various natural language phenomena may become nearly trivial. 
0704.03887	On the accurate evaluation of overlap integrals over Slater type  orbitals using analytical and recurrence relations	Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)	Authors:I.I.Guseinov, B.A.Mamedov	 Abstract: In this study, using the analytical and recurrence relations suggested by the authors in previous works, the new efficient and reliable program procedure for the overlap integrals over Slater type orbitals (STOs) is presented. The proposed procedure guarantees a highly accurate evaluation of the overlap integrals with arbitrary values of quantum numbers, screening constants and internuclear distances. It is demonstrated that the computational accuracy of the proposed procedure is not only dependent on the efficiency of formulas, as has been discussed previously, but also on a number of other factors including the used program language package and solvent properties. The numerical results obtained using the algorithm described in the present work are in a complete agreement with those obtained using the alternative evaluation procedure. We notice that the program works without any restrictions and in all range of integral parameters. 
0704.03888	Gravitational field of a higher dimensional global monopole in Lyra  geometry	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:F.Rahaman, K.Maity, P.Ghosh, K.Gayen	 Abstract: We present a five dimensional global monopole within the framework of Lyra geometry. Also the gravitational field of the monopole solution has been considered. 
0704.03889	Liquid-vapour transition of the long range Yukawa fluid	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Jean-Michel Caillol, Federica Lo Verso, Elisabeth Scholl-Paschinger, Jean-Jacques Weis	 Abstract: Two liquid state theories, the self-consistent Ornstein-Zernike equation (SCOZA) and the hierarchical reference theory (HRT) are shown, by comparison with Monte Carlo simulations, to perform extremely well in predicting the liquid-vapour coexistence of the hard core Yukawa (HCY) fluid when the interaction is long range. The long range of the potential is treated in the simulations using both an Ewald sum and hyperspherical boundary conditions. In addition, we present an analytical optimised mean field theory which is exact in the limit of an infinitely long range interaction. The work extends a previous one by Caccamo et al [Phys. Rev. E,60, 5533 (1999)] for short range interactions. 
0704.03890	An algorithm for clock synchronization with the gradient property in  sensor networks	Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)	Authors:Rodolfo M. Pussente, Valmir C. Barbosa	 Abstract: We introduce a distributed algorithm for clock synchronization in sensor networks. Our algorithm assumes that nodes in the network only know their immediate neighborhoods and an upper bound on the network's diameter. Clock-synchronization messages are only sent as part of the communication, assumed reasonably frequent, that already takes place among nodes. The algorithm has the gradient property of [2], achieving an O(1) worst-case skew between the logical clocks of neighbors. As in the case of [3,8], the algorithm's actions are such that no constant lower bound exists on the rate at which logical clocks progress in time, and for this reason the lower bound of [2,5] that forbids constant skew between neighbors does not apply. 
0704.03891	World-sheet scattering in AdS_5 x S^5 at two loops	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:T. Klose, T. McLoughlin, J. A. Minahan, K. Zarembo	 Abstract: We study the AdS_5 x S^5 sigma-model truncated to the near-flat-space limit to two-loops in perturbation theory. In addition to extending previously known one-loop results to the full SU(2|2)^2 S-matrix we calculate the two-loop correction to the dispersion relation and then compute the complete two-loop S-matrix. The result of the perturbative calculation can be compared with the appropriate limit of the conjectured S-matrix for the full theory and complete agreement is found. 
0704.03892	Current Noise in Quantum Point Contacts	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:L. DiCarlo, Yiming Zhang, D. T. McClure, D. J. Reilly, C. M. Marcus, L. N. Pfeiffer, K. W. West, M. P. Hanson, A. C. Gossard	 Abstract: We present measurements of current noise in quantum point contacts as a function of source-drain bias, gate voltage, and in-plane magnetic field. At zero bias, Johnson noise provides a measure of the electron temperature. At finite bias, shot noise at zero field exhibits an asymmetry related to the 0.7 structure in conductance. The asymmetry in noise evolves smoothly into the symmetric signature of spin-resolved electron transmission at high field. Comparison to a phenomenological model with density-dependent level splitting yields quantitative agreement. Additionally, a device-specific contribution to the finite-bias noise, particularly visible on conductance plateaus (where shot noise vanishes), agrees quantitatively with a model of bias-dependent electron heating. 
0704.03893	Single and two-particle motion of heavy particles in turbulence	Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)	Authors:I. Fouxon, P. Horvai	 Abstract: We study motion of small particles in turbulence when the particle relaxation time falls in the range of inertial time-scales of the flow. Due to inertia, particles drift relative to the fluid. We show that the drift velocity is close to the Lagrangian velocity increments of turbulence at the particle relaxation time. We demonstrate that the collective drift of two close particles makes them see local velocity increments fluctuate fast and we introduce the corresponding Langevin description for separation dynamics. This allows to describe the behavior of the Lyapunov exponent and give the analogue of Richardson's law for separation above viscous scale. 
0704.03894	Manifolds admitting stable forms	Differential Geometry (math.DG)	Authors:Hong-Van Le, Martin Panak, Jiri Vanzura	 Abstract: In this note we give a direct method to classify all stable forms on $\R^n$ as well as to determine their automorphism groups. We show that in dimension 6,7,8 stable forms coincide with non-degnerate forms. We present necessary conditions and sufficient conditions for a manifold to admit a stable form. We also discuss rich properties of the geometry of such manifolds. 
0704.03895	SPI observations of the diffuse 60Fe emission in the Galaxy	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:W. Wang, M.J. Harris, R. Diehl, H. Halloin, B. Cordier, A.W. Strong, K. Kretschmer, J. Knoedlseder, P. Jean, G.G. Lichti, J.P. Roques, S. Schanne, A. von Kienlin, G. Weidenspointner, C. Wunderer	 Abstract: Gamma-ray line emission from radioactive decay of 60Fe provides constraints on nucleosynthesis in massive stars and supernovae. The spectrometer SPI on board INTEGRAL has accumulated nearly three years of data on gamma-ray emission from the Galactic plane. We have analyzed these data with suitable instrumental-background models and sky distributions to produce high-resolution spectra of Galactic emission. We detect the gamma-ray lines from 60Fe decay at 1173 and 1333 keV, obtaining an improvement over our earlier measurement of both lines with now 4.9 sigma significance for the combination of the two lines. The average flux per line is (4.4 \pm 0.9) \times 10^{-5} ph cm^{-2} s^{-1} rad^{-1} for the inner Galaxy region. Deriving the Galactic 26Al gamma-ray line flux with using the same set of observations and analysis method, we determine the flux ratio of 60Fe/26Al gamma-rays as 0.148 \pm 0.06. The current theoretical predictions are still consistent with our result. 
0704.03896	Sum rule for photon target	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:E. Bartos, S. Dubnicka, A.Z. Dubnickova, E.A. Kuraev	 Abstract: The amplitude of zero angle scattering of electron on photon in the 3-rd QED order of fine structure constant with $\gamma^*\gamma$ intermediate state converting into quark--antiquark is considered. Utilizing analytic properties of elastic photon--photon scattering amplitude an explicit expression for differential cross- section of quark--antiquark pair production at electron-photon collision in peripheral kinematics is derived apparently. Limiting case of small transferred momenta with an application of the Weizs\"acker-Williams like relation gives the sum rule for photon target, bringing into the relation the sum of ratios of the four power of the quark charges to squared quark masses with integral over the total $\gamma\gamma \to 2 jets$ cross--section. 
0704.03897	A Surface-Gated InSb Quantum Well Single Electron Transistor	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:J.M.S. Orr, P.D. Buckle, M. Fearn, C.J. Storey, L. Buckle, T. Ashley	 Abstract: Single electron charging effects in a surface-gated InSb/AlInSb QW structure are reported. This material, due to its large g-factor and light effective mass, offers considerable advantages over more commonly used materials, such as GaAs, for quantum information processing devices. However, differences in material and device technology result in significant processing challenges. Simple Coulomb blockade and quantised confinement models are considered to explain the observation of conductance oscillations in these structures. The charging energy is found to be comparable with the energy spectrum for single particle states. 
0704.03898	Reissner-Nordström Spacetime in the Tetrad Theory of Gravitation	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Gamal G.L. Nashed, Takeshi Shirafuji	 Abstract: We give two classes of spherically symmetric exact solutions of the couple gravitational and electromagnetic fields with charged source in the tetrad theory of gravitation. The first solution depends on an arbitrary function $H({R},t)$. The second solution depends on a constant parameter $\eta$. These solutions reproduce the same metric, i.e., the Reissner--Nordstr$\ddot{o}$m metric. If the arbitrary function which characterizes the first solution and the arbitrary constant of the second solution are set to be zero, then the two exact solutions will coincide with each other. We then calculate the energy content associated with these analytic solutions using the superpotential method. In particular, we examine whether these solutions meet the condition which M{\o}ller required for a consistent energy-momentum complex: Namely, we check whether the total four-momentum of an isolated system behaves as a four-vector under Lorentz transformations. It is then found that the arbitrary function should decrease faster than $1/\sqrt{R}$ for $R\to \infty$. It is also shown that the second exact solution meets the M{\o}ller's condition. 
0704.03899	Parameterized Gromov-Witten invariants and topology of symplectomorphism  groups	Symplectic Geometry (math.SG)	Authors:Hong-Van Le, Kaoru Ono	 Abstract: In this note we introduce parameterized Gromov-Witten invariants for symplectic fiber bundles and study the topology of the symplectomorphism group. We also give sample applications showing the non-triviality of certain homotopy groups of some symplectomorphism groups. 
0704.03900	The infrared environments of masers associated with star formation	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:James De Buizer (Gemini Observatory)	 Abstract: The near infrared (1-2um) and the thermal infrared (3-25um) trace many of the environments in which masers are thought to reside, including shocks, outflows, accretion disks, and the dense medium near protostars. After a number of recent surveys it has been found that there is a higher detection rate of mid-IR emission towards masers than cm radio continuum emission from UC HII regions, and that the mid-IR emission is actually more closely cospatial to the maser locations. A high percentage of water and methanol masers that are not coincident with the UC HII regions in massive star forming regions are likely to be tracing outflows and extremely young high mass stars before the onset of the UC HII region phase. After a decade of groundwork supporting the hypothesis that linarly distributed class II methanol masers may generally trace accretion disks around young massive stars, compelling evidence is mounting that these masers may generally be associated with outflows instead. Substantiation of this claim comes from recent outflow surveys and high angular resolution mid-IR imaging of the maser environments. 
0704.03901	Existence and symmetry of minimizers for nonconvex radially symmetric  variational problems	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Stefan Krömer	 Abstract: Nonconvex functionals with spherical symmetry are studied. Existence of one and radial symmetry of all global minimizers is shown with an approach based on convex relaxation. 
0704.03902	On the number of collisions in $Λ$-coalescents	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Alexander Gnedin, Yuri Yakubovich	 Abstract: We examine the total number of collisions $C_n$ in the $\Lambda$-coalescent process which starts with $n$ particles. A linear growth and a stable limit law for $C_n$ are shown under the assumption of a power-like behaviour of the measure $\Lambda$ near 0 with exponent $0<\alpha<1$. 
0704.03903	An abundance of invariant polynomials satisfying the Riemann hypothesis	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Koji Chinen	 Abstract: In 1999, Iwan Duursma defined the zeta function for a linear code as a generating function of its Hamming weight enumerator. It can also be defined for other homogeneous polynomials not corresponding to existing codes. If the homogeneous polynomial is invariant under the MacWilliams transform, then its zeta function satisfies a functional equation and we can formulate an analogue of the Riemann hypothesis. As far as existing codes are concerned, the Riemann hypothesis is believed to be closely related to the extremal property. In this article, we show there are abundant polynomials invariant by the MacWilliams transform which satisfy the Riemann hypothesis. The proof is carried out by explicit construction of such polynomials. To prove the Riemann hypothesis for a certain class of invariant polynomials, we establish an analogue of the Enestr"om-Kakeya theorem. 
0704.03904	Acyclic Preference Systems in P2P Networks	Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)	Authors:Anh-Tuan Gai (INRIA Rocquencourt), Dmitry Lebedev (FT R&D), Fabien Mathieu (FT R&D), Fabien De Montgolfier (LIAFA), Julien Reynier (LIENS), Laurent Viennot (INRIA Rocquencourt)	 Abstract: In this work we study preference systems natural for the Peer-to-Peer paradigm. Most of them fall in three categories: global, symmetric and complementary. All these systems share an acyclicity property. As a consequence, they admit a stable (or Pareto efficient) configuration, where no participant can collaborate with better partners than their current ones. We analyze the representation of the such preference systems and show that any acyclic system can be represented with a symmetric mark matrix. This gives a method to merge acyclic preference systems and retain the acyclicity. We also consider such properties of the corresponding collaboration graph, as clustering coefficient and diameter. In particular, studying the example of preferences based on real latency measurements, we observe that its stable configuration is a small-world graph. 
0704.03905	Ensemble Learning for Free with Evolutionary Algorithms ?	Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)	Authors:Christian Gagné (INFORMATIQUE WGZ INC.), Michèle Sebag (INRIA Futurs), Marc Schoenauer (INRIA Futurs), Marco Tomassini (ISI)	 Abstract: Evolutionary Learning proceeds by evolving a population of classifiers, from which it generally returns (with some notable exceptions) the single best-of-run classifier as final result. In the meanwhile, Ensemble Learning, one of the most efficient approaches in supervised Machine Learning for the last decade, proceeds by building a population of diverse classifiers. Ensemble Learning with Evolutionary Computation thus receives increasing attention. The Evolutionary Ensemble Learning (EEL) approach presented in this paper features two contributions. First, a new fitness function, inspired by co-evolution and enforcing the classifier diversity, is presented. Further, a new selection criterion based on the classification margin is proposed. This criterion is used to extract the classifier ensemble from the final population only (Off-line) or incrementally along evolution (On-line). Experiments on a set of benchmark problems show that Off-line outperforms single-hypothesis evolutionary learning and state-of-art Boosting and generates smaller classifier ensembles. 
0704.03906	Area laws in quantum systems: mutual information and correlations	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:M.M. Wolf, F. Verstraete, M.B. Hastings, J.I. Cirac	 Abstract: The holographic principle states that on a fundamental level the information content of a region should depend on its surface area rather than on its volume. This counterintuitive idea which has its roots in the nonextensive nature of black-hole entropy serves as a guiding principle in the search for the fundamental laws of Planck-scale physics. In this paper we show that a similar phenomenon emerges from the established laws of classical and quantum physics: the information contained in part of a system in thermal equilibrium obeys an area law. While the maximal information per unit area depends classically only on the number of microscopic degrees of freedom, it may diverge as the inverse temperature in quantum systems. A rigorous relation between area laws and correlations is established and their explicit behavior is revealed for a large class of quantum many-body states beyond equilibrium systems. 
0704.03907	Developments in entanglement theory and applications to relevant  physical systems	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Lucas Lamata	 Abstract: This Thesis is devoted to the analysis of entanglement in relevant physical systems. Entanglement is the conducting theme of this research, though I do not dedicate to a single topic, but consider a wide scope of physical situations. I have followed mainly three lines of research for this Thesis, with a series of different works each, which are, Entanglement and Relativistic Quantum Theory, Continuous-variable entanglement, and Multipartite entanglement. 
0704.03908	A globular cluster in the dwarf galaxy Sextans B	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:M.E. Sharina (SAO RAS), Th.H. Puzia (Herzberg Institute of Astrophysics), A.S. Krylatyh (Kazan State University)	 Abstract: We present spectroscopic observations of a massive globular cluster in the dwarf irregular galaxy Sextans B, discovered by us on Hubble Space Telescope Wide Field and Planetary Camera 2 (HST WFPC2) images. Long-slit spectra were obtained with the SCORPIO spectrograph on the the 6-m telescope at the Special Astrophysical observatory of the Russian Academy of Sciences. We determine age, metallicity and alpha-element abundance ratio for the globular cluster to be $ 2 \pm 1$ Gyr, $-1.35 \pm 0.25$ dex, and $ 0.1 \pm 0.1$ dex, respectively. Main photometric and structural parameters of it were determined using our surface photometry on the HST images. The mass ($\sim 10^5 M \sun$), luminosity and structural parameters appear to be typical for the globular clusters in our own Galaxy. Our findings shed a new light on the evolutionary history of Sextans B. 
0704.03909	Measurement of the Lambda_b lifetime in the exclusive decay Lambda_b to  J/psi Lambda	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:D0 Collaboration: V. Abazov, et al	 Abstract: We have measured the Lambda_b lifetime using the exclusive decay Lambda_b to J/psi Lambda, based on 1.2 fb-1 of data collected with the D0 detector during 2002-2006. From 171 reconstructed Lambda_b decays, where the J/psi and Lambda are identified via the decays J/psi to mu+ mu- and Lambda to p pi, we measured the Lambda_b lifetime to be tau(Lambda_b) = 1.218(+0.130,-0.115)(stat) +/- 0.042(syst)ps. We also measured the B0 lifetime in the decay B0 to J/psi(mu+ mu-)K0_S(pi+ pi-) to be tau(B0) = 1.501(+0.078,-0.074)(stat) +/ -0.050(syst)ps, yielding a lifetime ratio of tau(Lambda_b)/tau(B0) = 0.811(+0.096,-0.087)(stat) +/ -0.034(syst). These measurements are consistent with the current world averages and support the shorter lifetime of the Lambda_b with respect to B mesons, in contrast to another recent measurement of significant precision. 
0704.03910	Cascading on extragalactic background light	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P. d'Avezac, G. Dubus, B. Giebels	 Abstract: High-energy gamma-rays propagating in the intergalactic medium can interact with background infrared photons to produce e+e- pairs, resulting in the absorption of the intrinsic gamma-ray spectrum. TeV observations of the distant blazar 1ES 1101-232 were thus recently used to put an upper limit on the infrared extragalactic background light density. The created pairs can upscatter background photons to high energies, which in turn may pair produce, thereby initiating a cascade. The pairs diffuse on the extragalactic magnetic field (EMF) and cascade emission has been suggested as a means for measuring its intensity. Limits on the IR background and EMF are reconsidered taking into account cascade emissions. The cascade equations are solved numerically. Assuming a power-law intrinsic spectrum, the observed 100 MeV - 100 TeV spectrum is found as a function of the intrinsic spectral index and the intensity of the EMF. Cascades emit mainly at or below 100 GeV. The observed TeV spectrum appears softer than for pure absorption when cascade emission is taken into account. The upper limit on the IR photon background is found to be robust. Inversely, the intrinsic spectra needed to fit the TeV data are uncomfortably hard when cascade emission makes a significant contribution to the observed spectrum. An EMF intensity around 1e-8 nG leads to a characteristic spectral hump in the GLAST band. Higher EMF intensities divert the pairs away from the line-of-sight and the cascade contribution to the spectrum becomes negligible. 
0704.03911	Distal actions and ergodic actions on compact groups	Dynamical Systems (math.DS)	Authors:C. R. E. Raja	 Abstract: Let $K$ be a compact metrizable group and $\Ga$ be a group of automorphisms of $K$. We first show that each $\ap \in \Ga$ is distal on $K$ implies $\Ga$ itself is distal on $K$, a local to global correspondence provided $\Ga$ is a generalized $\ov{FC}$-group or $K$ is a connected finite-dimensional group. We show that $\Ga$ contains an ergodic automorphism when $\Ga$ is nilpotent and ergodic on a connected finite-dimensional compact abelian group $K$. 
0704.03912	Quasi elementary contractions of Fano manifolds	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:C. Casagrande	 Abstract: Let X be a smooth complex Fano variety. We define and study 'quasi elementary' contractions of fiber type f: X -> Y. These have the property that rho(X) is at most rho(Y)+rho(F), where rho is the Picard number and F is a general fiber of f. In particular any elementary extremal contraction of fiber type is quasi elementary. We show that if Y has dimension at most 3 and Picard number at least 4, then Y is smooth and Fano; if moreover rho(Y) is at least 6, then X is a product. This yields sharp bounds on rho(X) when dim(X)=4 and X has a quasi elementary contraction, and other applications in higher dimensions. 
0704.03913	A Note on Chiral Symmetry Breaking from Intersecting Branes	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Yi-hong Gao, Jonathan P. Shock, Wei-shui Xu, Ding-fang Zeng	 Abstract: In this paper, we will consider the chiral symmetry breaking in the holographic model constructed from the intersecting brane configuration, and investigate the Nambu-Goldstone bosons associated with this symmetry breaking. 
0704.03914	One-loop phi-MHV amplitudes using the unitarity bootstrap	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:S. D. Badger (Saclay, SPhT), E. W. N. Glover (IPPP, Durham U.), Kasper Risager (Bohr Inst.)	 Abstract: We consider a Higgs boson coupled to gluons via the five-dimensional effective operator H Tr G_{munu}G^{munu} produced by considering the heavy top quark limit of the one-loop coupling of Higgs and gluons in the standard model. We treat H as the real part of a complex field phi that couples to the selfdual gluon field strengths and compute the one-loop corrections to amplitudes involving phi, two colour adjacent negative helicity gluons and an arbitrary number of positive helicity gluons - the so-called phi-MHV amplitudes. We use four-dimensional unitarity to construct the cut-containing contributions and the recently developed recursion relations to obtain the rational contribution for an arbitrary number of external gluons. We solve the recursion relations and give explicit results for up to four external gluons. These amplitudes are relevant for Higgs plus jet production via gluon fusion in the limit where the top quark mass is large compared to all other scales in the problem. 
0704.03915	NBODY meets stellar population - The HYDE-PARC Project	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Andrea Borch, Rainer Spurzem, Jarrod Hurley	 Abstract: N-body simulations give us a rough idea of how the shape of a simulated object appears in three-dimensional space. From an observational point of view this may give us a misleading picture. The faint stars may be the most common stars in the system but the morphological information obtained by observations of an object may be dominated by the color properties of the bright stars. Due to dynamical effects, such as energy equipartition, different masses of stars may populate different regions in the object. Since stars are evolving in mass the stellar evolution may also influence the dynamics of the system. Hence, if one is interested in simulating what the morphology will look like through a telescope, one needs to simulate in addition evolving stars and weight them by their luminosity. Therefore we need to combine simulations of the dynamical evolution and a stellar population synthesis at the same time. For the dynamical evolution part we use a parallel version of a direct N-body code, NBODY6++. This code also includes stellar evolution. We link the parameters from this stellar evolution routine to the BaSeL 2.0 stellar library. For isolated clusters we found results assimilable to standard stellar population synthesis codes such as the PEGASE code. For clusters in a tidal field we found that the integrated colors become relatively bluer due to energy equipartition effects. In the time shortly before dissolution of the cluster the stellar M/L ratio becomes lower compared to isolated clusters. We compared the results of our simulations to integrated spectra of galactic globular clusters. For the cluster NGC 1851 we found good agreement between simulation and observation. For extragalactic clusters in M81 and M31 we looked at medium band spectral energy distributions and found for some clusters also a good agreement. 
0704.03916	The Gehring Lemma in Metric Spaces	Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA)	Authors:Outi Elina Maasalo	 Abstract: We present a proof for the Gehring lemma in a metric measure space endowed with a doubling measure. As an application we show the self improving property of Muckenhoupt weights. 
0704.03917	A fully microscopical simulation of nuclear collisions by a new QMD  model	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:M.V. Garzelli	 Abstract: Nucleon-ion and ion-ion collisions at non relativistic bombarding energies can be described by means of Monte Carlo approaches, such as those based on the Quantum Molecular Dynamics (QMD) model. We have developed a QMD code, to simulate the fast stage of heavy-ion reactions, and we have coupled it to the de-excitation module available in the FLUKA Monte Carlo transport and interaction code. The results presented in this work span the projectile bombarding energy range within 200 - 600 MeV/A, allowing to investigate the capabilities and limits of our non-relativistic QMD approach. 
0704.03918	Domain-wall/Cosmology correspondence in adS/dS supergravity	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Kostas Skenderis, Paul K. Townsend, Antoine Van Proeyen	 Abstract: We realize the domain-wall/cosmology correspondence for (pseudo)supersymmetric domain walls (cosmologies) in the context of four-dimensional supergravity. The OSp(2|4)-invariant anti-de Sitter (adS) vacuum of a particular N=2 Maxwell-Einstein supergravity theory is shown to correspond to the OSp(2^*|2,2)-invariant de Sitter (dS) vacuum of a particular pseudo-supergravity model, with `twisted' reality conditions on spinors. More generally, supersymmetric domain walls of the former model correspond to pseudo-supersymmetric cosmologies of the latter model, with time-dependent pseudo-Killing spinors that we give explicitly. 
0704.03919	On over-reflection and generation of Gravito-Alfven waves in solar-type  stars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Andria Rogava, Grigol Gogoberidze, Stefaan Poedts	 Abstract: The dynamics of linear perturbations is studied in magnetized plasma shear flows with a constant shearing rate and with gravity-induced stratification. The general set of linearized equations is derived and the two-dimensional case is considered in detail. The Boussinesq approximation is used in order to examine relatively small-scale perturbations of low-frequency modes: Gravito-Alfven waves (GAW) and Entropy Mode (EM) perturbations. It is shown that for flows with arbitrary shearing rate there exists a finite time interval of non-adiabatic evolution of the perturbations. The non-adiabatic behavior manifests itself in a twofold way, viz. by the over-reflection of the GAWs and by the generation of GAWs from EM perturbations. It is shown that these phenomena act as efficient transformers of the equilibrium flow energy into the energy of the perturbations for moderate and high shearing rate solar plasma flows. Efficient generation of GAW by EM takes place for shearing rates about an order of magnitude smaller than necessary for development of a shear instability. The latter fact could have important consequences for the problem of angular momentum redistribution within the Sun and solar-type stars. 
0704.03920	Orbifold GUT inflation	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Seong Chan Park (Seoul National University)	 Abstract: We consider a scenario of cosmological inflation coming from a grand unified theory in higher dimensional orbifold. Flatness of the potential is automatically guaranteed in this orbifold setup thanks to the nonlocality of the Wilson line on higher dimensions and the local quantum gravitational corrections are exponentially suppressed. The spectral index of scalar perturbation (n_s =0.92 - 0.97) and a significant production of gravitational waves are predicted (r= T/S= 0.01 - 0.12) in the perturbative regime of gauge interaction, (1/g_4 = (5-20) X 2 pi R Mpl) where the size of compactification is constrained (R Mpl = 20- 45) by the measurement of scalar power spectrum (Delta_R = 5 X 10^-5). 
0704.03921	Sharp thresholds of blow-up and global existence for the coupled  nonlinear Schrodinger system	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Li Ma, Lin Zhao	 Abstract: In this paper, we establish two new types of invariant sets for the coupled nonlinear Schrodinger system on $\mathbb{R}^n$, and derive two sharp thresholds of blow-up and global existence for its solution. Some analogous results for the nonlinear Schrodinger system posed on the hyperbolic space $\mathbb{H}^n$ and on the standard 2-sphere $\mathbb{S}^2$ are also presented. Our arguments and constructions are improvements of some previous works on this direction. At the end, we give some heuristic analysis about the strong instability of the solitary waves. 
0704.03922	Smoothness of the law of some one-dimensional jumping S.D.E.s with  non-constant rate of jump	Probability (math.PR)	Authors:Nicolas Fournier	 Abstract: We consider a one-dimensional jumping Markov process $\{X^x_t\}_{t \geq 0}$, solving a Poisson-driven stochastic differential equation. We prove that the law of $X^x_t$ admits a smooth density for $t>0$, under some regularity and non-degeneracy assumptions on the coefficients of the S.D.E. To our knowledge, our result is the first one including the important case of a non-constant rate of jump. The main difficulty is that in such a case, the map $x \mapsto X^x_t$ is not smooth. This seems to make impossible the use of Malliavin calculus techniques. To overcome this problem, we introduce a new method, in which the propagation of the smoothness of the density is obtained by analytic arguments. 
0704.03923	Unusual doping and temperature dependence of photoemission spectra from  manganites	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:Prabuddha Sanyal, Subhra Sen Gupta, Nandan Pakhira, H. R. Krishnamurthy, D. D. Sarma, T. V. Ramakrishnan	 Abstract: A recent, major, puzzle in the core-level photoemission spectra of doped manganites is the observation of a 1-2 eV wide shoulder with intensity varying with temperature T as the square of the magnetization over a T scale of order 200K, an order of magnitude less than electronic energies. This is addressed and resolved here, by extending a recently proposed two electron fluid l-b model for these systems to include core-hole effects. The shoulder arises from a rapid redistribution of e_g electron density, as a function of T, between the highly localized (l) and band-like (b) states. Furthermore, our theory leads to a correspondence between spectral changes due to increasing doping and decreasing T, as experimentally observed. 
0704.03924	Higgs effect in Conformal Cosmology & Supernova Data	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:B.M. Barbashov, L.A. Glinka, V.N. Pervushin, A.F. Zakharov	 Abstract: The formulation of the Higgs effect is studied in the Glashow--Weinberg--Salam Standard Model, where the constant part of the Higgs potential is identified with the zeroth mode of the Higgs field. In this model, the Coleman--Weinberg effective potential obtained from the vacuum--vacuum transition amplitude is equal to unity at the extremum. This extremum immediately removes tremendous vacuum cosmological density and predicts mass of Higgs field. In this model, the kinetic energy density of the Higgs field and any scalar field can be treated as the rigid state origin that explains Supernova data in the conformal cosmology without the $\Lambda$ term. 
0704.03925	Dark matter in the Milky Way, II. the HI gas distribution as a tracer of  the gravitational potential	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:P.M.W. Kalberla, L. Dedes, J. Kerp, U. Haud	 Abstract: Context. Gas within a galaxy is forced to establish pressure balance against gravitational forces. The shape of an unperturbed gaseous disk can be used to constrain dark matter models. Aims. We derive the 3-D HI volume density distribution for the Milky Way out to a galactocentric radius of 40 kpc and a height of 20 kpc to constrain the Galactic mass distribution. Methods. We used the Leiden/Argentine/Bonn all sky 21-cm line survey. The transformation from brightness temperatures to densities depends on the rotation curve. We explored several models, reflecting different dark matter distributions. Each of these models was set up to solve the combined Poisson-Boltzmann equation in a self-consistent way and optimized to reproduce the observed flaring. Results. Besides a massive extended halo of M ~ 1.8 10^{12} Msun, we find a self-gravitating dark matter disk with M=2 to 3 10^{11} Msun, including a dark matter ring at 13 < R < 18.5 kpc with M = 2.2 to 2.8 10^{10} Msun. The existence of the ring was previously postulated from EGRET data and coincides with a giant stellar structure that surrounds the Galaxy. The resulting Milky Way rotation curve is flat up to R~27 kpc and slowly decreases outwards. The \hi gas layer is strongly flaring. The HWHM scale height is 60 pc at R = 4 kpc and increases to ~2700$ pc at R=40 kpc. Spiral arms cause a noticeable imprint on the gravitational field, at least out to R = 30 kpc. Conclusions. Our mass model supports previous proposals that the giant stellar ring structure is due to a merging dwarf galaxy. The fact that the majority of the dark matter in the Milky Way for $R \la 40$ kpc can be successfully modeled by a self-gravitating isothermal disk raises the question of whether this massive disk may have been caused by similar merger events in the past. 
0704.03926	Stabilities of one-dimensional stationary states of Bose-Einstein  condensates	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Wenhua Hai, Guishu Chong, Jianwen Song	 Abstract: We explore the dynamical stabilities of a quasi-one dimensional (1D) Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) consisting of fixed $N$ atoms with time-independent external potential. For the stationary states with zero flow density the general solution of the perturbed time evolution equation is constructed, and the stability criterions concerning the initial conditions and system parameters are established. Taking the lattice potential case as an example, the stability and instability regions on the parameter space are found. The results suggest a method for selecting experimental parameters and adjusting initial conditions to suppress the instabilities. 
0704.03927	Alpha decay chains from element 113	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:P. Roy Chowdhury, D.N. Basu, C. Samanta	 Abstract: Theoretical estimates of $\alpha$-decay half lives of several nuclei in the decay from element 113 are presented. Calculations in a WKB framework using DDM3Y interaction and experimental Q-values are in good agreement with the experimental data. Half life calculations are found to be quite sensitive to the Q-values and angular momenta transfers. Calculated decay lifetime decreases, owing to more penetrability as well as thinner barrier, as Q-value increases. Deviations to this predominant behaviour observed in some recent experimental data may be attributed to non zero spin-parities in some cases. 
0704.03928	Spin lifetime in silicon in the presence of parasitic electronic effects	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Biqin Huang (1), Douwe J. Monsma (2), Ian Appelbaum (1) ((1) University of Delaware, (2) Cambridge NanoTech Inc.)	 Abstract: A hybrid ferromagnet/semiconductor device is used to determine a lower bound on the spin lifetime for conduction electrons in silicon. We use spin precession to self-consistently measure the drift velocity vs. drift field of spin-polarized electrons and use this electronic control to change the transit time between electron injection and detection. A measurement of normalized magnetocurrent as a function of drift velocity is used with a simple exponential-decay model to argue that the lifetime obtained (~2 ns) is artificially lowered by electronic effects and is likely orders of magnitude higher. 
0704.03929	Cascade hypernuclear production spectra at J-PARC	Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)	Authors:Hideki Maekawa, Kohsuke Tsubakihara, Hiroshi Matsumiya, Akira Ohnishi	 Abstract: We predict cascade hypernuclear production spectra expected in the forthcoming J-PARC experiment. In the Green's function method of the distorted wave impulse wave approximation with the local optimal Fermi averaging t-matrix, we can describe the Xi production spectra in the continuum and bound state region reasonably well. Predictions to the high resonlution spectra at J-PARC suggest hat we should observe Xi bound state peak structure in (K-,K+) spectra in light nuclear targets such as 12C and 27Al. 
0704.03930	The KATRIN sensitivity to the neutrino mass and to right-handed currents  in beta decay	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:J. Bonn, K. Eitel, F. Glück, D. Sevilla-Sanchez, N. Titov	 Abstract: The aim of the KArlsruhe TRItium Neutrino experiment KATRIN is the determination of the absolute neutrino mass scale down to 0.2 eV, with essentially smaller model dependence than from cosmology and neutrinoless double beta decay. For this purpose, the integral electron energy spectrum is measured close to the endpoint of molecular tritium beta decay. The endpoint, together with the neutrino mass, should be fitted from the KATRIN data as a free parameter. The right-handed couplings change the electron energy spectrum close to the endpoint, therefore they have some effect also to the precise neutrino mass determination. The statistical calculations show that, using the endpoint as a free parameter, the unaccounted right-handed couplings constrained by many beta decay experiments can change the fitted neutrino mass value, relative to the true neutrino mass, by not larger than about 5-10 %. Using, incorrectly, the endpoint as a fixed input parameter, the above change of the neutrino mass can be much larger, order of 100 %, and for some cases it can happen that for large true neutrino mass value the fitted neutrino mass squared is negative. Publications using fixed endpoint and presenting large right-handed coupling effects to the neutrino mass determination are not relevant for the KATRIN experiment. 
0704.03931	The Complexity of Model Checking Higher-Order Fixpoint Logic	Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO)	Authors:Roland Axelsson, Martin Lange, Rafal Somla	 Abstract: Higher-Order Fixpoint Logic (HFL) is a hybrid of the simply typed \lambda-calculus and the modal \lambda-calculus. This makes it a highly expressive temporal logic that is capable of expressing various interesting correctness properties of programs that are not expressible in the modal \lambda-calculus. This paper provides complexity results for its model checking problem. In particular we consider those fragments of HFL built by using only types of bounded order k and arity m. We establish k-fold exponential time completeness for model checking each such fragment. For the upper bound we use fixpoint elimination to obtain reachability games that are singly-exponential in the size of the formula and k-fold exponential in the size of the underlying transition system. These games can be solved in deterministic linear time. As a simple consequence, we obtain an exponential time upper bound on the expression complexity of each such fragment. The lower bound is established by a reduction from the word problem for alternating (k-1)-fold exponential space bounded Turing Machines. Since there are fixed machines of that type whose word problems are already hard with respect to k-fold exponential time, we obtain, as a corollary, k-fold exponential time completeness for the data complexity of our fragments of HFL, provided m exceeds 3. This also yields a hierarchy result in expressive power. 
0704.03932	Dynamical friction force exerted on spherical bodies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:O. Esquivel, B. Fuchs	 Abstract: We present a rigorous calculation of the dynamical friction force exerted on a spherical massive perturber moving through an infinite homogenous system of field stars. By calculating the shape and mass of the polarization cloud induced by the perturber in the background system, which decelerates the motion of the perturber, we recover Chandrasekhar's drag force law with a modified Coulomb logarithm. As concrete examples we calculate the drag force exerted on a Plummer sphere or a sphere with the density distribution of a Hernquist profile. It is shown that the shape of the perturber affects only the exact form of the Coulomb logarithm. The latter converges on small scales, because encounters of the test and field stars with impact parameters less than the size of the massive perturber become inefficient. We confirm this way earlier results based on the impulse approximation of small angle scatterings. 
0704.03933	Testing entropy production hypotheses in non-linear steady states	Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)	Authors:Stijn Bruers	 Abstract: In the last few decades, some hypotheses for entropy production (EP) principles have been forwarded as possible candidates for organizational principles in non-linear non- equilibrium systems. Two important hypotheses will be studied: the maximum entropy production (MaxEP) principle that claims that the selected steady state has the highest EP, and the gradient response principle that claims that the EP of the selected steady state (maximally) increases when the external thermodynamic driving force increases. We will formulate these hypotheses more rigorously and present a simple chemical reaction model to test these hypotheses. With the help of this model, we will clearly demonstrate that there are different MaxEP hypotheses being discussed in the literature and we will look at some parts in the literature where these differences are not always clarified. Furthermore, our chemical model will be a general counter example to all of these MaxEP and gradient response hypotheses. 
0704.03934	Signals of Very High Energy Neutralinos in Future Cosmic Ray Detectors	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Sascha Bornhauser, Manuel Drees	 Abstract: ``Top--down'' models explain the observation of ultra high energy cosmic rays (UHECR; $E \gsim 5 \cdot 10^{19}$ eV) through the decay of very massive, long--lived ``$X$ particles''. If superparticles with masses near a TeV exist, $X$ decays also lead to a significant flux of very energetic neutralinos, assumed to be the (stable or long--lived) lightest superparticles. There is a range of energies where neutrinos get absorbed in the Earth, but neutralinos can still traverse it. These neutralinos could in principle be detected. We calculate the detection rate in planned experiments such as OWL and EUSO. For bino--like neutralinos, which have been considered previously, we find detection rates below 1 event per Teraton of target and year in all cases; often the rates are much smaller. In contrast, if the neutralino is higgsino--like, more than ten events per year per Teraton might be observed, if the mass of the $X$ particle is near its lower bound of $\sim 10^{12}$ GeV. 
0704.03935	Subgroups of direct products of limit groups	Group Theory (math.GR)	Authors:Martin R Bridson, James Howie, Charles F Miller III, Hamish Short	 Abstract: If $G_1,...,G_n$ are limit groups and $S\subset G_1\times...\times G_n$ is of type $\FP_n(\mathbb Q)$ then $S$ contains a subgroup of finite index that is itself a direct product of at most $n$ limit groups. This settles a question of Sela. 
0704.03936	Hidden past of dark energy cosmological models	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:L. Fernandez-Jambrina	 Abstract: In this paper we analyse the possibility of having homogeneous isotropic cosmological models with observers reaching $t=\infty$ in finite proper time. It is shown that just observationally-suggested dark energy models with $w\in(-5/3,-1)$ show this feature and that they are endowed with an exotic curvature singularity. Furthermore, it is shown that non-accelerated observers in these models may experience a duration of the universe as short as desired by increasing their linear momentum. A subdivision of phantom models in two families according to this behavior is suggested. 
0704.03937	Multifractal Analysis of inhomogeneous Bernoulli products	Metric Geometry (math.MG)	Authors:Athanasios Batakis, Benoit Testud	 Abstract: We are interested to the multifractal analysis of inhomogeneous Bernoulli products which are also known as coin tossing measures. We give conditions ensuring the validity of the multifractal formalism for such measures. On another hand, we show that these measures can have a dense set of phase transitions. 
0704.03938	Classical dispersion-cancellation interferometry	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:K.J. Resch, P. Puvanathasan, J.S. Lundeen, M.W. Mitchell, K. Bizheva	 Abstract: Even-order dispersion cancellation, an effect previously identified with frequency-entangled photons, is demonstrated experimentally for the first time with a linear, classical interferometer. A combination of a broad bandwidth laser and a high resolution spectrometer was used to measure the intensity correlations between anti-correlated optical frequencies. Only 14% broadening of the correlation signal is observed when significant material dispersion, enough to broaden the regular interferogram by 4250%, is introduced into one arm of the interferometer. 
0704.03939	Monopoles, Curves and Ramanujan	Mathematical Physics (math-ph)	Authors:H.W. Braden, V.Z. Enolski	 Abstract: We develop the Ercolani-Sinha construction of SU(2) monopoles and make this effective for (a five parameter family of centred) charge 3 monopoles. In particular we show how to solve the transcendental constraints arising on the spectral curve. For a class of symmetric curves the transcendental constraints become a number theoretic problem and a recently proven identity of Ramanujan provides a solution. 
0704.03940	An obstruction to a knot being deform-spun via Alexander polynomials	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Ryan Budney, Alexandra Mozgova	 Abstract: We show that if a co-dimension two knot is deform-spun from a lower-dimensional co-dimension 2 knot, there are constraints on the Alexander polynomials. In particular this shows, for all n, that not all co-dimension 2 knots in S^n are deform-spun from knots in S^{n-1}. 
0704.03941	Bimodal AGNs in Bimodal Galaxies	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Cavaliere (1), N. Menci (2) ((1) Dip. Fisica Universita' di Roma ''Tor Vergata'', (2) INAF - Osservatorio Astronomico di Roma)	 Abstract: By their star content, the galaxies split out into a red and a blue population; their color index peaked around u-r=2.5 or u-r=1, respectively, quantifies the ratio of the blue stars newly formed from cold galactic gas, to the redder ones left over by past generations. On the other hand, upon accreting substantial gas amounts the central massive black holes energize active galactic nuclei (AGNs); here we investigate whether these show a similar, and possibly related, bimodal partition as for current accretion activity relative to the past. To this aim we use an updated semianalytic model; based on Monte Carlo simulations, this follows with a large statistics the galaxy assemblage, the star generations and the black hole accretions in the cosmological framework over the redshift span from z=10 to z=0. We test our simulations for yielding in close detail the observed split of galaxies into a red, early and a blue, late population. We find that the black hole accretion activities likewise give rise to two source populations: early, bright quasars and later, dimmer AGNs. We predict for their Eddington parameter $\lambda_E$ -- the ratio of the current to the past black hole accretions -- a bimodal distribution; the two branches sit now under $\lambda_E \approx 0.01$ (mainly contributed by low-luminosity AGNs) and around $\lambda_E \approx 0.3-1$. These not only mark out the two populations of AGNs, but also will turn out to correlate strongly with the red or blue color of their host galaxies. 
0704.03942	Separability Criterion for multipartite quantum states based on the  Bloch representation of density matrices	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Ali Saif M. Hassan, Pramod S. Joag	 Abstract: We give a new separability criterion, a necessary condition for separability of $N$-partite quantum states. The criterion is based on the Bloch representation of a $N$-partite quantum state and makes use of multilinear algebra, in particular, the matrization of tensors. Our criterion applies to {\it arbitrary} $N$-partite quantum states in $\mathcal{H}=\mathcal{H}^{d_1}\otimes \mathcal{H}^{d_2} \otimes ... \otimes \mathcal{H}^{d_N}.$ The criterion can test whether a $N$-partite state is entangled and can be applied to different partitions of the $N$-partite system. We provide examples that show the ability of this criterion to detect entanglement. We show that this criterion can detect bound entangled states. We prove a sufficiency condition for separability of a 3-partite state, straightforwardly generalizable to the case $N > 3,$ under certain condition. We also give a necessary and sufficient condition for separability of a class of $N$-qubit states which includes $N$-qubit PPT states. 
0704.03943	Signatures of SUSY Dark Matter at the LHC and in the Spectra of Cosmic  Rays	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Jan Olzem	 Abstract: This thesis discusses the search for supersymmetry at the future Large Hadron Collider (LHC) and the ongoing construction of one of the four large LHC experiments, the Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS), and focuses on the detection of signals from the annihilation of supersymmetric dark matter in the spectra of cosmic rays. Measurements of cosmic ray antiparticles, such as positrons, can impose strong constraints on the nature of new physics beyond the Standard Model. However, cosmic ray positron measurements are experimentally very challenging due to the vast proton background. A novel approach of positron identification with the space-borne AMS-01 experiment, namely through the detection of bremsstrahlung conversion in a silicon microstrip detector, is introduced. Bremsstrahlung from protons is suppressed by a factor of more than 3*10^6 with respect to positrons. The results of the positron measurement show that the bremsstrahlung approach extends the sensitivity range of AMS-01 to positron momenta up to 50 GeV/c, which is far beyond the original scope of the experiment. At momenta above 8 GeV/c there is indication for a positron overabundance with respect to model predictions for purely secondary positron production. Therefore, the AMS-01 data lend further weight to the hints of a positron overabundance seen in the data from earlier experiments. The positron fraction measurements from the most recent experiments are combined with the results of this analysis, giving the most precise positron fraction data yet available. 
0704.03944	Simultaneous Radio to (Sub-) mm-Monitoring of Variability and Spectral  Shape Evolution of potential GLAST Blazars	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:L. Fuhrmann, J. A. Zensus, T. P. Krichbaum, E. Angelakis, A. C. S. Readhead	 Abstract: The Large Area Telescope (LAT) instrument onboard GLAST offers a tremendous opportunity for future blazar studies. In order to fully benefit from its capabilities and to maximize the scientific return from the LAT, it is of great importance to conduct dedicated multi-frequency monitoring campaigns that will result comprehensive observations. Consequently, we initiated an effort to conduct a GLAST-dedicated, quasi-simultaneous, broad-band flux-density (and polarization) monitoring of potential GLAST blazars with the Effelsberg and OVRO radio telescopes (11cm to 7mm wavelength). Here, we present a short overview of these activities which will complement the multi-wavelengths activities of the GLAST/LAT collaboration towards the 'low-energy' radio bands. Further we will give a brief outlook including the extension of this coordinated campaign towards higher frequencies and future scientific aims. 
0704.03945	Extra energy coupling through subwavelength hole arrays via stochastic  resonance	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Jean-Baptiste Masson (LOB), Guilhem Gallot (LOB)	 Abstract: Interaction between metal surface waves and periodic geometry of subwavelength structures is at the core of the recent but crucial renewal of interest in plasmonics. One of the most intriguing points is the observation of abnormal strong transmission through these periodic structures, which can exceed by orders of magnitude the classical transmission given by the filling factor of the plate. The actual paradigm is that this abnormal transmission arises from the periodicity, and then that such high transmission should disappear in random geometries. Here, we show that extra energy can be coupled through the subwavelength structure by adding a controlled quantity of noise to the position of the apertures. This result can be modelled in the statistical framework of stochastic resonance. The evolution of the coupled energy with respect to noise gives access to the extra energy coupled at the surface of the subwavelength array. 
0704.03946	Excision for K-theory of connective ring spectra	K-Theory and Homology (math.KT)	Authors:Bjørn Ian Dundas, Harald Øyen Kittang	 Abstract: We extend Geisser and Hesselholt's result on ``bi-relative K-theory'' from discrete rings to connective ring spectra. That is, if $\mathcal A$ is a homotopy cartesian $n$-cube of ring spectra (satisfying connectivity hypotheses), then the $(n+1)$-cube induced by the cyclotomic trace $$K(\mathcal A)\to TC(\mathcal A)$$ is homotopy cartesian after profinite completion. In other words, the fiber of the profinitely completed cyclotomic trace satisfies excision. 
0704.03947	A study of uranium-based multilayers: I. Fabrication and structural  characterisation	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:R Springell, S W Zochowski, R C C Ward, M R Wells, S D Brown, L Bouchenoire, F Wilhelm, S Langridge, W G Stirling, G H Lander	 Abstract: This paper addresses the structural characterisation of a series of U/Fe, U/Co and U/Gd multilayers. X-ray reflectivity has been employed to investigate the layer thickness and roughness parameters along the growth direction and high-angle diffraction measurements have been used to determine the crystal structure and orientation of the layers. For the case of uranium/transition metal systems, the interfaces are diffuse and the transition metals are present in a polycrystalline form of their common bulk phases with a preferred orientation along the closest packed planes; Fe, bcc (110) and Co, hcp (001), respectively. The uranium is present in a poorly crystalline orthorhombic, alpha-U state. In contrast, the U/Gd multilayers have sharp interfaces with negligible intermixing of atomic species, and have a roughness, which is strongly dependent on the gadolinium layer thickness. Diffraction spectra indicate a high degree of crystallinity in both U and Gd layers with intensities consistent with the growth of a novel hcp U phase, stabilised by the hcp gadolinium layers. 
0704.03948	The Worm-Like Chain Theory And Bending Of Short DNA	Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)	Authors:Alexey K. Mazur	 Abstract: The probability distributions for bending angles in double helical DNA obtained in all-atom molecular dynamics simulations are compared with theoretical predictions. The computed distributions remarkably agree with the worm-like chain theory for double helices of one helical turn and longer, and qualitatively differ from predictions of the semi-elastic chain model. The computed data exhibit only small anomalies in the apparent flexibility of short DNA and cannot account for the recently reported AFM data (Wiggins et al, Nature nanotechnology 1, 137 (2006)). It is possible that the current atomistic DNA models miss some essential mechanisms of DNA bending on intermediate length scales. Analysis of bent DNA structures reveals, however, that the bending motion is structurally heterogeneous and directionally anisotropic on the intermediate length scales where the experimental anomalies were detected. These effects are essential for interpretation of the experimental data and they also can be responsible for the apparent discrepancy. 
0704.03949	35% magnetocurrent with spin transport through Si	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:Biqin Huang (1), Lai Zhao (1), Douwe J. Monsma (2), Ian Appelbaum (1) ((1) University of Delaware, (2) Cambridge NanoTech Inc.)	 Abstract: Efficient injection of spin-polarized electrons into the conduction band of silicon is limited by the formation of a silicide at the ferromagnetic metal (FM)/silicon interface. In the present work, this "magnetically-dead" silicide (where strong spin-scattering significantly reduces injected spin polarization) is eliminated by moving the FM in the spin injector from the tunnel junction base anode to the emitter cathode and away from the silicon surface. This results in over an order-of-magnitude increase in spin injection efficiency, from a previously-reported magnetocurrent ratio of ~2% to ~35% and an estimated spin polarization in Si from ~1% to at least ~15%. The injector tunnel-junction bias dependence of this spin transport signal is also measured, demonstrating the importance of low bias voltage to preserve high injected spin polarization. 
0704.03950	Backward Compton Scattering and QED with Noncommutative Plane in the  Strong Uniform Magnetic Field	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Wei Huang, Wang Xu, Mu-Lin Yan	 Abstract: In the strong uniform magnetic field, the noncommutative plane (NCP) caused by the lowest Landau level (LLL) effect, and QED with NCP (QED-NCP) are studied. Being similar to the condensed matter theory of quantum Hall effect, an effective filling factor $f(B)$ is introduced to character the possibility that the electrons stay on the LLL. The analytic and numerical results of the differential cross section for the process of backward Compton scattering in the accelerator with unpolarized or polarized initial photons are calculated. The existing data of BL38B2 in Spring-8 have been analyzed roughly and compared with the numerical predictions primitively. We propose a precise measurement of the differential cross sections of backward Compton scattering in a strong perpendicular magnetic field, which may lead to reveal the effects of QED-NCP. 
0704.03951	On the necessity of new ramification breaks	Number Theory (math.NT)	Authors:Nigel P. Byott, G. Griffith Elder	 Abstract: Ramification invariants are necessary, but not in general sufficient, to determine the Galois module structure of ideals in local number field extensions. This insufficiency is associated with elementary abelian extensions, where one can define a refined ramification filtration -- one with more ramification breaks [JNTB 17 (2005)]. The first refined break number comes from the usual ramification filtration and is therefore necessary. Here we study the second refined break number. 
0704.03952	Complex asymptotics of Poincaré functions and properties of Julia sets	Complex Variables (math.CV)	Authors:Gregory Derfel, Peter J. Grabner, Fritz Vogl	 Abstract: The asymptotic behaviour of the solutions of Poincar\'e's functional equation $f(\lambda z)=p(f(z))$ ($\lambda>1$) for $p$ a real polynomial of degree $\geq2$ is studied in angular regions of the complex plain. The constancy of an occurring periodic function is characterised in terms of geometric properties of the Julia set of $p$. For real Julia sets we give inequalities for multipliers of Pommerenke-Levin-Yoccoz type. The distribution of zeros of $f$ is related to the harmonic measure on the Julia set of $p$. 
0704.03953	Kinetic theory of two dimensional point vortices from a BBGKY-like  hierarchy	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:P.H. Chavanis	 Abstract: Starting from the Liouville equation, we derive the exact hierarchy of equations satisfied by the reduced distribution functions of the single species point vortex gas in two dimensions. Considering an expansion of the solution in powers of 1/N in a proper thermodynamic limit $N\to +\infty$, and neglecting some collective effects, we derive a kinetic equation satisfied by the smooth vorticity field which is valid at order $O(1/N)$. This equation was obtained previously [P.H. Chavanis, Phys. Rev. E, 64, 026309 (2001)] from a more abstract projection operator formalism. If we consider axisymmetric flows and make a markovian approximation, we obtain a simpler kinetic equation which can be studied in great detail. We discuss the properties of these kinetic equations in regard to the $H$-theorem and the convergence (or not) towards the statistical equilibrium state. We also study the growth of correlations by explicitly calculating the time evolution of the two-body correlation function in the linear regime. In a second part of the paper, we consider the relaxation of a test vortex in a bath of field vortices and obtain the Fokker-Planck equation by directly calculating the second (diffusion) and first (drift) moments of the increment of position of the test vortex. A specificity of our approach is to obtain general equations, with a clear physical meaning, that are valid for flows that are not necessarily axisymmetric and that take into account non-Markovian effects. A limitations of our approach, however, is that it ignores collective effects. 
0704.03954	Dalitz Plot Analysis of the D+ --> pi- pi+ pi+ Decay	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:G. Bonvicini, et al, CLEO Collaboration	 Abstract: Using 281 pb^{-1} of data recorded by the CLEO-c detector in e^+e^- collisions at the psi(3770), corresponding to 0.78 million D^+D^- pairs, we investigate the substructure of the decay D^+ to pi^- pi^+ pi^+ using the Dalitz plot technique. We find that our data are consistent with the following intermediate states: rho(770)pi^+, f_2(1270)pi^+, f_0(1370)pi^+, f_0(1500)pi^+, f_0(980) pi^+, and sigma pi^+. We confirm large S wave contributions at low pi pi mass. We set upper limits on contributions of other possible intermediate states. We consider three models of the pi pi S wave and find that all of them adequately describe our data. 
0704.03955	Characterisation of a three-dimensional Brownian motor in optical  lattices	Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)	Authors:P. Sjolund, S. J. H. Petra, C. M. Dion, H. Hagman, S. Jonsell, A. Kastberg	 Abstract: We present here a detailed study of the behaviour of a three dimensional Brownian motor based on cold atoms in a double optical lattice [P. Sjolund et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 190602 (2006)]. This includes both experiments and numerical simulations of a Brownian particle. The potentials used are spatially and temporally symmetric, but combined spatiotemporal symmetry is broken by phase shifts and asymmetric transfer rates between potentials. The diffusion of atoms in the optical lattices is rectified and controlled both in direction and speed along three dimensions. We explore a large range of experimental parameters, where irradiances and detunings of the optical lattice lights are varied within the dissipative regime. Induced drift velocities in the order of one atomic recoil velocity have been achieved. 
0704.03956	Magnetohydrostatic solar prominences in near-potential coronal magnetic  fields	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:G.J.D. Petrie, J.W.S. Blokland, R. Keppens	 Abstract: We present numerical magnetohydrostatic solutions describing the gravitationally stratified, bulk equilibrium of cool, dense prominence plasma embedded in a near-potential coronal field. These solutions are calculated using the FINESSE magnetohydrodynamics equilibrium solver and describe the morphologies of magnetic field distributions in and around prominences and the cool prominence plasma that these fields support. The equilibrium condition for this class of problem is usually different in distinct subdomains, separated by free boundaries, across which solutions are matched by suitable continuity or jump conditions describing force balance. We employ our precise finite element elliptic solver to calculate solutions not accessible by previous analytical techniques with temperature or entropy prescribed as free functions of the magnetic flux function, including a range of values of the polytropic index, temperature variations mainly across magnetic field lines and photospheric field profiles sheared close to the polarity inversion line. Out of the many examples computed here, perhaps the most noteworthy is one which reproduces precisely the three-part structure often encountered in observations: a cool dense prominence within a cavity/flux rope embedded in a hot corona. The stability properties of these new equilibria, which may be relevant to solar eruptions, can be determined in the form of a full resistive MHD spectrum using a companion hyperbolic stability solver. 
0704.03957	Erwin Schroedinger, Francis Crick and epigenetic stability	General Physics (physics.gen-ph)	Authors:Vasily Ogryzko	 Abstract: Schroedinger's book 'What is Life?' is widely credited for having played a crucial role in development of molecular and cellular biology. My essay revisits the issues raised by this book from the modern perspective of epigenetics and systems biology. I contrast two classes of potential mechanisms of epigenetic stability: 'epigenetic templating' and 'systems biology' approaches, and consider them from the point of view expressed by Schroedinger. I also discuss how quantum entanglement, a nonclassical feature of quantum mechanics, can help to address the 'problem of small numbers' that lead Schroedinger to promote the idea of molecular code-script for explanation of stability of biological order. 
0704.03958	Towards local electromechanical probing of cellular and biomolecular  systems in a liquid environment	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Sergei V. Kalinin, Brian J. Rodriguez, Stephen Jesse, Katyayani Seal, Roger Proksch, Sophia Hohlbauch, Irene Revenko, Gary Lee Thompson, Alexey A. Vertegel	 Abstract: Electromechanical coupling is ubiquitous in biological systems with examples ranging from simple piezoelectricity in calcified and connective tissues to voltage-gated ion channels, energy storage in mitochondria, and electromechanical activity in cardiac myocytes and outer hair cell stereocilia. Piezoresponse force microscopy (PFM) has originally emerged as a technique to study electromechanical phenomena in ferroelectric materials, and in recent years, has been employed to study a broad range of non-ferroelectric polar materials, including piezoelectric biomaterials. At the same time, the technique has been extended from ambient to liquid imaging on model ferroelectric systems. Here, we present results on local electromechanical probing of several model cellular and biomolecular systems, including insulin and lysozyme amyloid fibrils, breast adenocarcinoma cells, and bacteriorhodopsin in a liquid environment. The specific features of SPM operation in liquid are delineated and bottlenecks on the route towards nanometer-resolution electromechanical imaging of biological systems are identified. 
0704.03959	Optical Devices for Cold Atoms and Bose-Einstein Condensates	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Naceur Gaaloul (PPM, LSAMA), Amine Jaouadi (PPM, LSAMA), Mourad Telmini (LSAMA), Laurence Pruvost (LAC), Eric Charron (PPM)	 Abstract: The manipulation of cold atoms with optical fields is a very promising technique for a variety of applications ranging from laser cooling and trapping to coherent atom transport and matter wave interferometry. Optical fields have also been proposed as interesting tools for quantum information processing with cold atoms. In this paper, we present a theoretical study of the dynamics of a cold 87Rb atomic cloud falling in the gravity field in the presence of two crossing dipole guides. The cloud is either deflected or split between the two branches of this guide. We explore the possibilities of optimization of this device and present preliminary results obtained in the case of zero-temperature dilute Bose-Einstein condensates. 
0704.03960	Supernova Asymmetries	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:J. Craig Wheeler, Justyn R. Maund, Shizuka Akiyama	 Abstract: All core collapse supernovae are strongly aspherical. The "Bochum event," with velocity components displaced symmetrically about the principal H$\alpha$ line, strongly suggests that SN 1987A was a bi-polar rather than a uni-polar explosion. While there is a general tendency to display a single prominant axis in images and spectropolarimetry, there is also growing evidence for frequent departures from axisymmetry. There are various mechanisms that might contribute to large scale departures from spherical symmetry: jet-induced processes, the spherical shock accretion instability (SASI) and associated phenomena, and non-axisymmetric instabilities (NAXI). The MRI gives inevitable production of large toroidal magnetic fields. In sum: no $\Omega$ without B. The role of magnetic fields, non-axisymmetric instabilities, and of the de-leptonization phase are discussed. 
0704.03961	Intrinsically universal one-dimensional quantum cellular automata in two  flavours	Quantum Physics (quant-ph)	Authors:Pablo Arrighi, Renan Fargetton, Zizhu Wang	 Abstract: We give a one-dimensional quantum cellular automaton (QCA) capable of simulating all others. By this we mean that the initial configuration and the local transition rule of any one-dimensional QCA can be encoded within the initial configuration of the universal QCA. Several steps of the universal QCA will then correspond to one step of the simulated QCA. The simulation preserves the topology in the sense that each cell of the simulated QCA is encoded as a group of adjacent cells in the universal QCA. The encoding is linear and hence does not carry any of the cost of the computation. We do this in two flavours: a weak one which requires an infinite but periodic initial configuration and a strong one which needs only a finite initial configuration. KEYWORDS: Quantum cellular automata, Intrinsic universality, Quantum computation. 
0704.03962	Un théorème de Beilinson-Bernstein pour les D-modules  arithmétiques	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Christine Noot-Huyghe (IRMA)	 Abstract: One proves a Beilinson-Bernstein theorem in the context of arithmetic D-modules introduced by Berthelot, for flag varieties. This generalizes in the arithmetic context previous results of Brylinski-Kashiwara and Beilinson-Bernstein in the complex case. 
0704.03963	Non-monotonic orbital velocity profiles around rapidly rotating  Kerr-(anti-)de Sitter black holes	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Andreas Mueller, Bernd Aschenbach	 Abstract: It has been recently demonstrated that the orbital velocity profile around Kerr black holes in the equatorial plane as observed in the locally non-rotating frame exhibits a non-monotonic radial behaviour. We show here that this unexpected minimum-maximum feature of the orbital velocity remains if the Kerr vacuum is generalized to the Kerr-de Sitter or Kerr-anti-de Sitter metric. This is a new general relativity effect in Kerr spacetimes with non-vanishing cosmological constant. Assuming that the profile of the orbital velocity is known, this effect constrains the spacetime parameters. 
0704.03964	Measurement of the CKM angle gammma with B-+ ->D^(*)[K0s pi- pi+]K^(*)-+  decays in BaBar	High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)	Authors:F. Martinez-Vidal (On behalf of the BaBar Collaboration)	 Abstract: We report on the measurement of the Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa angle gamma through a Dalitz analysis of neutral D decays to K0s pi- pi+ in the processes B-+ -> D^(*) K-+ and B-+ -> D K^*-+, D^* -> D pi0, D gamma, with the Babar detector at the SLAC PEP-II e^+ e^- asymmetric-energy collider. 
0704.03965	Optical Transitions in New Trends Organic Materials	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:S.T. Perez-Merchancano, G. E. Marques, L.E. Bolivar-Marinez	 Abstract: The PTCDA (3,4,9,10-Perylene-tetracarboxylic dianhydride) and the NTCDA (1,4,5,8-Naphtalenetetracarboxylic dianhydride) are aromatic, stable, planar and highly symmetric with unusual electrical properties. The PTCDA is a semiconductor organic crystalline of particular interest due to its excellent properties and electronic potential that are used in optoelectronic devices and the NTCDA it is monoclinic and its space group is similar to that of the PTCDA. Recently, alternate layers of PTCDA and NTCDA were growth forming multiple structures of quantum wells showing a new class of materials with new optic lineal properties. Some have assured that their big utilities would be centered in the construction of diodes and of possible guides of waves. We have carried out calculations semi-empirical of the electronic structures and of optic properties of the PTCDA and of the NTCDA that show us that they are structures highly orderly polymeric, semiconductors in a negative load state (charge state= -2) 
0704.03966	Dick Dalitz: Examples of His Contributions to Particle Physics	History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)	Authors:Gary R. Goldstein	 Abstract: Dick Dalitz produced lasting contributions to particle physics for 50 years. Along with Dalitz pairs, Dalitz plots and CDD poles, he did major work in parity violation, hyperon resonance identification, the quark model, and hypernuclei. These topics will be summarized, with some emphasis on the author's collaboration with Dalitz on quark spin and fragmentation correlations, and, particularly, the work on the identification of the top quark and its mass. Short biographical information is interspersed. This paper is based on a presentation at the International School of Subnuclear Physics, Erice 2006. 
0704.03967	Electronic structure of zinc-blende MnTe within the GW approximation	Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)	Authors:A. Fleszar, M. Potthoff, W. Hanke	 Abstract: Using the local spin-density approximation (LSDA) and the (non self-consistent) GW approach, the (quasi-particle) band structure is calculated for MnTe in zinc-blende geometry. Different parameters characterizing the electronic structure are computed for an antiferromagnetic and the ferromagnetic phase and compared with the experiment. The strong Hubbard-type repulsion on the Mn-3d orbitals and the p-d hybridization are seen to be responsible for substantial defects found in the LSDA picture. It is discussed to which extent these can be improved upon by means of the GW approach. 
0704.03968	Electroweak Radiative Corrections to Muon Capture	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:A. Czarnecki, W. J. Marciano, A. Sirlin	 Abstract: Electroweak radiative corrections to muon capture on nuclei are computed and found to be sizable. They enhance the capture rates for hydrogen and helium by 2.8% and 3.0% respectively. As a result, the value of the induced pseudoscalar coupling, g_P^exp, extracted from a recent hydrogen 1S singlet capture experiment is increased by about 21% to g_P^exp = 7.3 +/- 1.2 and brought into good agreement with the prediction of chiral perturbation theory, g_P^theory=8.2 +/- 0.2. Implications for helium capture rate predictions are also discussed. 
0704.03969	Diversity of MIMO Multihop Relay Channels - Part I: Amplify-and-Forward	Information Theory (cs.IT)	Authors:Sheng Yang, Jean-Claude Belfiore	 Abstract: In this two-part paper, we consider the multiantenna multihop relay channels in which the source signal arrives at the destination through N independent relaying hops in series. The main concern of this work is to design relaying strategies that utilize efficiently the relays in such a way that the diversity is maximized. In part I, we focus on the amplify-and-forward (AF) strategy with which the relays simply scale the received signal and retransmit it. More specifically, we characterize the diversity-multiplexing tradeoff (DMT) of the AF scheme in a general multihop channel with arbitrary number of antennas and arbitrary number of hops. The DMT is in closed-form expression as a function of the number of antennas at each node. First, we provide some basic results on the DMT of the general Rayleigh product channels. It turns out that these results have very simple and intuitive interpretation. Then, the results are applied to the AF multihop channels which is shown to be equivalent to the Rayleigh product channel, in the DMT sense. Finally, the project-and-forward (PF) scheme, a variant of the AF scheme, is proposed. We show that the PF scheme has the same DMT as the AF scheme, while the PF can have significant power gain over the AF scheme in some cases. In part II, we will derive the upper bound on the diversity of the multihop channels and show that it can be achieved by partitioning the multihop channel into AF subchannels. 
0704.03970	A study of uranium-based multilayers: II. Magnetic properties	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:R Springell, S W Zochowski, R C C Ward, M R Wells, S D Brown, L Bouchenoire, F Wilhelm, S Langridge, W G Stirling, G H Lander	 Abstract: SQUID magnetometry and polarised neutron reflectivity measurements have been employed to characterise the magnetic properties of U/Fe, U/Co and U/Gd multilayers. The field dependence of the magnetisation was measured at 10K in magnetic fields from -70kOe to 70kOe. A temperature dependent study of the magnetisation evolution was undertaken for a selection of U/Gd samples. PNR was carried out in a field of 4.4kOe for U/Fe and U/Co samples (at room temperature) and for U/Gd samples (at 10K). Magnetic 'dead' layers of about 15 Angstrom were observed for U/Fe and U/Co samples, consistent with a picture of interdiffused interfaces. A large reduction in the magnetic moment, constant over a wide range of Gd layer thicknesses, was found for the U/Gd system (about 4 Bohr magnetons compared with 7.63 for the bulk metal). This could be understood on the basis of a pinning of Gd moments arising from a column-like growth mechanism of the Gd layers. A study of the effective anisotropy suggests that perpendicular magnetic anisotropy could occur in multilayers consisting of thick U and thin Gd layers. A reduction in the Curie temperature was observed as a function of Gd layer thickness, consistent with a finite-size scaling behaviour. 
0704.03971	Three-Dimensionally Confined Optical Modes in Quantum Well Microtube  Ring Resonators	Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)	Authors:Ch. Strelow, C. M. Schultz, H. Rehberg, H. Welsch, Ch. Heyn, D. Heitmann, T. Kipp	 Abstract: We report on microtube ring resonators with quantum wells embedded as an optically active material. Optical modes are observed over a broad energy range. Their properties strongly depend on the exact geometry of the microtube along its axis. In particular we observe (i) preferential emission of light on the inside edge of the microtube and (ii) confinement of light also in direction of the tube axis by an axially varying geometry which is explained in an expanded waveguide model. 
0704.03972	Electronic Emition Properties of Bi Layer Novel Organic Semiconductor  Systems	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:P.J. Salazar-Valencia, L.E. Bolivar-Marinez, S.T. Perez-Merchancano	 Abstract: The perylene-3,4,9,10-tetracarboxylic-dianhydride (PTCDA) and 1,4,5,8-naphthalene-tetracaboxylic-dianhydride (NTCDA) are planar pi-stacking organic molecules that have been shown to be excellent model compounds for studying the growth and optoelectronic properties of organic semiconductor thin films, particularly organic diodes. Some observations have shown that this molecules, particularly PTCDA a brick-like shaped molecule easily forms well-ordered films on various substrates due to its unique crystal structure which is characterized by flat lying molecules In this work we will explore some energetic and optical characteristics such as heats of formation, optic GAP energies, electronic transitions and others of novel tow layer systems of alternate layers of PTCDA and NTCDA by means of the semiempirical methods Parametric Model 3 (PM3) and Zerner's Intermediate Neglect of Differential Overlap (ZINDO/S) in Configuration Interaction mode. 
0704.03973	Semi-Fredholm singular integral operators with piecewise continuous  coefficients on weighted variable Lebesgue spaces are Fredholm	Functional Analysis (math.FA)	Authors:Alexei Yu. Karlovich	 Abstract: Suppose $\Gamma$ is a Carleson Jordan curve with logarithmic whirl points, $\varrho$ is a Khvedelidze weight, $p:\Gamma\to(1,\infty)$ is a continuous function satisfying $|p(\tau)-p(t)|\le -\mathrm{const}/\log|\tau-t|$ for $|\tau-t|\le 1/2$, and $L^{p(\cdot)}(\Gamma,\varrho)$ is a weighted generalized Lebesgue space with variable exponent. We prove that all semi-Fredholm operators in the algebra of singular integral operators with $N\times N$ matrix piecewise continuous coefficients are Fredholm on $L_N^{p(\cdot)}(\Gamma,\varrho)$. 
0704.03974	Rectangular Potential Barrier Affected by External Fields, Hydrostatic  Pressure and Impurities	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:Julian A. Zuñiga, O.L. Hernandez-Rosero, S.T. Perez-Merchancano	 Abstract: In this work the influence of the electric and magnetic fields over a tunneling particle in a rectangular potential barrier is shown, we have taken into account the presence of an impurity at the barrier center and the effects of a hydrostatic pressure parallel to the barrier height considering the BenDaniel-Duke boundary conditions. Given that the particle is moving inside a GaAs-AlxGa1-xAs-GaAs heterostructures it is evident a change in the transmission coefficient due to the impurity concentration and the presence of the hydrostatic pressure. The potential due to the presence of the impurity is approximate with a second degree polynomial function that resolves the discontinuity generated by heavily modifying the transmission coefficient. 
0704.03975	Spectroscopy and critical temperature of diffusive  superconducting/ferromagnetic hybrid structures with spin-active interfaces	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Audrey Cottet	 Abstract: The description of the proximity effect in superconducting/ferromagnetic heterostructures requires to use spin-dependent boundary conditions. Such boundary conditions must take into account the spin dependence of the phase shifts acquired by electrons upon scattering on the boundaries of ferromagnets. The present article shows that this property can strongly affect the critical temperature and the energy dependence of the density of states of diffusive heterostructures. These effects should allow a better caracterisation of diffusive superconductor/ferromagnet interfaces. 
0704.03976	Lawvere completeness in Topology	Category Theory (math.CT)	Authors:Maria Manuel Clementino (University of Coimbra), Dirk Hofmann (University of Aveiro)	 Abstract: It is known since 1973 that Lawvere's notion of (Cauchy-)complete enriched category is meaningful for metric spaces: it captures exactly Cauchy-complete metric spaces. In this paper we introduce the corresponding notion of Lawvere completeness for $(\mathbb{T},\mathsf{V})$-categories and show that it has an interesting meaning for topological spaces and quasi-uniform spaces: for the former ones means weak sobriety while for the latter means Cauchy completeness. Further, we show that $\mathsf{V}$ has a canonical $(\mathbb{T},\mathsf{V})$-category structure which plays a key role: it is Lawvere-complete under reasonable conditions on the setting; permits us to define a Yoneda embedding in the realm of $(\mathbb{T},\mathsf{V})$-categories. 
0704.03977	Electronic Properties of Eumelanin Monomers and Dimmers	Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)	Authors:M.M. Falla Solórzano, L.E. Bolivar-Marinez, S.T. Perez-Merchancano	 Abstract: The melanin is a group of biological pigments commonly found in living beings, it can be classified in three groups: eumelanin human beings, pheomelanins in animals, and allomelanins in the vegetal kingdom. There is a special interest in the eumelanin because this biopolymer exhibits the typical properties of a semiconductor. Eumelanin is also responsible of the main cellular photoprotection mechanisms in the human beings. The exact structural pattern of eumelanin is not completely known yet, the planar molecules 5, 6-indolquinine and its reduced forms semiquinone and hydroquinone outline the greater part of the biological pigment. In this work the structural, electronic and optical properties of monomers in various charged states (0, -1) and dimmers of eumelanin in vacuum, are found for the neutral state of charge, by means of the Semiempirical methods MNDO, AM1, PM3 and ZINDO/S-CI 
0704.03978	Lepton asymmetries and the growth of cosmological seed magnetic fields	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:V. B. Semikoz, J. W. F. Valle	 Abstract: Primordial cosmological hypermagnetic fields polarize the early Universe plasma prior to the electroweak phase transition (EWPT). As a result of the long range parity violating gauge interaction present in the Standard Model their magnitude gets amplified, opening a new, perturbative way, of accounting for the observed intergalactic magnetic fields. 
0704.03979	The Magnetic Sensitivity of the Ba II D1 and D2 Lines of the Fraunhofer  Spectrum	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:Luca Belluzzi, Javier Trujillo Bueno, Egidio Landi Degl'Innocenti	 Abstract: The physical interpretation of the spectral line polarization produced by the joint action of the Hanle and Zeeman effects offers a unique opportunity to obtain empirical information about hidden aspects of solar and stellar magnetism. To this end, it is important to achieve a complete understanding of the sensitivity of the emergent spectral line polarization to the presence of a magnetic field. Here we present a detailed theoretical investigation on the role of resonance scattering and magnetic fields on the polarization signals of the Ba II D1 and D2 lines of the Fraunhofer spectrum, respectively at 4934 \AA\ and 4554 \AA. We adopt a three-level model of Ba II, and we take into account the hyperfine structure that is shown by the $^{135}$Ba and $^{137}$Ba isotopes. Despite of their relatively small abundance (18%), the contribution coming from these two isotopes is indeed fundamental for the interpretation of the polarization signals observed in these lines. We consider an optically thin slab model, through which we can investigate in a rigorous way the essential physical mechanisms involved (resonance polarization, Zeeman, Paschen-Back and Hanle effects), avoiding complications due to radiative transfer effects. We assume the slab to be illuminated from below by the photospheric solar continuum radiation field, and we investigate the radiation scattered at 90 degrees, both in the absence and in the presence of magnetic fields, deterministic and microturbulent. We show in particular the existence of a differential magnetic sensitivity of the three-peak Q/I profile that is observed in the D2 line in quiet regions close to the solar limb, which is of great interest for magnetic field diagnostics. 
0704.03980	A construction of generalized Harish-Chandra modules for locally  reductive Lie algebras	Representation Theory (math.RT)	Authors:Ivan Penkov, Gregg Zuckerman	 Abstract: We study cohomological induction for a pair $(\frak g,\frak k)$, $\frak g$ being an infinite dimensional locally reductive Lie algebra and $\frak k \subset\frak g$ being of the form $\frak k_0 + C_\gg(\frak k_0)$, where $\frak k_0\subset\frak g$ is a finite dimensional reductive in $\frak g$ subalgebra and $C_{\gg} (\frak k_0)$ is the centralizer of $\frak k_0$ in $\frak g$. We prove a general non-vanishing and $\frak k$-finiteness theorem for the output. This yields in particular simple $(\frak g,\frak k)$-modules of finite type over $\frak k$ which are analogs of the fundamental series of generalized Harish-Chandra modules constructed in \cite{PZ1} and \cite{PZ2}. We study explicit versions of the construction when $\frak g$ is a root-reductive or diagonal locally simple Lie algebra. 
0704.03981	Anomaly Holography	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Ben Gripaios, Stephen M. West	 Abstract: We consider, in the effective field theory context, anomalies of gauge field theories on a slice of a five-dimensional, Anti-de Sitter geometry and their four-dimensional, holographic duals. A consistent effective field theory description can always be found, notwithstanding the presence of the anomalies and without modifying the degrees of freedom of the theory. If anomalies do not vanish, the d=4 theory contains additional pseudoscalar states, which are either present in the low-energy theory as physical, light states, or are eaten by (would-be massless) gauge bosons. We show that the pseudoscalars ensure that global anomalies of the four-dimensional dual satisfy the 't Hooft matching condition and comment on the relevance for warped models of electroweak symmetry breaking. 
0704.03982	Takagi-Taupin Description of X-ray Dynamical Diffraction from  Diffractive Optics with Large Numerical Aperture	Optics (physics.optics)	Authors:Hanfei Yan, Jorg Maser, Albert Macrander, Qun Shen, Stefan Vogt, Brian Stephenson, Hyon Chol Kang	 Abstract: We present a formalism of x-ray dynamical diffraction from volume diffractive optics with large numerical aperture and high aspect ratio, in an analogy to the Takagi-Taupin equations for strained single crystals. We derive a set of basic equations for dynamical diffraction from volume diffractive optics, which enable us to study the focusing property of these optics with various grating profiles. We study volume diffractive optics that satisfy the Bragg condition to various degrees, namely flat, tilted and wedged geometries, and derive the curved geometries required for ultimate focusing. We show that the curved geometries satisfy the Bragg condition everywhere and phase requirement for point focusing, and effectively focus hard x-rays to a scale close to the wavelength. 
0704.03983	Retrieving information from a noisy "knowledge network"	Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)	Authors:Julien Barre	 Abstract: We address the problem of retrieving information from a noisy version of the ``knowledge networks'' introduced by Maslov and Zhang. We map this problem onto a disordered statistical mechanics model, which opens the door to many analytical and numerical approaches. We give the replica symmetric solution, compare with numerical simulations, and finally discuss an application to real datas from the United States Senate. 
0704.03984	Exact renormalisation group flow for ultracold Fermi gases in unitary  limit	Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)	Authors:Boris Krippa	 Abstract: We study the exact renormalisation group flow for ultracold Fermi-gases in unitary regime. We introduce a pairing field to describe the formation of the Cooper pairs, and take a simple ansatz for the effective action. Set of approximate flow equations for the effective couplings including boson and fermionic fluctuations is derived. At some value of the running scale, the system undergoes a phase transition to a gapped phase. The values of the energy density, chemical potential, pairing gap and the corresponding proportionality constants relating the interacting and non-interacting Fermi gases are calculated. Standard mean field results are recovered if we omit the boson loops. 
0704.03985	Dirichlet sigma models and mean curvature flow	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:I. Bakas, C. Sourdis	 Abstract: The mean curvature flow describes the parabolic deformation of embedded branes in Riemannian geometry driven by their extrinsic mean curvature vector, which is typically associated to surface tension forces. It is the gradient flow of the area functional, and, as such, it is naturally identified with the boundary renormalization group equation of Dirichlet sigma models away from conformality, to lowest order in perturbation theory. D-branes appear as fixed points of this flow having conformally invariant boundary conditions. Simple running solutions include the paper-clip and the hair-pin (or grim-reaper) models on the plane, as well as scaling solutions associated to rational (p, q) closed curves and the decay of two intersecting lines. Stability analysis is performed in several cases while searching for transitions among different brane configurations. The combination of Ricci with the mean curvature flow is examined in detail together with several explicit examples of deforming curves on curved backgrounds. Some general aspects of the mean curvature flow in higher dimensional ambient spaces are also discussed and obtain consistent truncations to lower dimensional systems. Selected physical applications are mentioned in the text, including tachyon condensation in open string theory and the resistive diffusion of force-free fields in magneto-hydrodynamics. 
0704.03986	Parametric Nonholonomic Frame Transforms and Exact Solutions in Gravity	General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)	Authors:Sergiu I. Vacaru	 Abstract: A generalized geometric method is developed for constructing exact solutions of gravitational field equations in Einstein theory and generalizations. First, we apply the formalism of nonholonomic frame deformations (formally considered for nonholonomic manifolds and Finsler spaces) when the gravitational field equations transform into systems of nonlinear partial differential equations which can be integrated in general form. The new classes of solutions are defined by generic off-diagonal metrics depending on integration functions on one, two and three (or three and four) variables if we consider four (or five) dimensional spacetimes. Second, we use a general scheme when one (two) parameter families of exact solutions are defined by any source-free solutions of Einstein's equations with one (two) Killing vector field(s). A successive iteration procedure results in new classes of solutions characterized by an infinite number of parameters for a non-Abelian group involving arbitrary functions on one variable. Five classes of exact off-diagonal solutions are constructed in vacuum Einstein and in string gravity describing solitonic pp-wave interactions. We explore possible physical consequences of such solutions derived from primary Schwarzschild or pp-wave metrics. 
0704.03987	Internal conversions in Higgs decays to two photons	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Ana Firan, Ryszard Stroynowski	 Abstract: We evaluate the partial widths for internal conversions in the Higgs decays to two photons. For the Higgs masses of interest at LHC in the range of 100-150 GeV, the conversions to pairs of fermions represent significant fraction of Higgs decays. 
0704.03988	Three Applications of the Cuntz Semigroup	Operator Algebras (math.OA)	Authors:Nathanial P. Brown, Andrew S. Toms	 Abstract: Building on work of Elliott and coworkers, we present three applications of the Cuntz semigroup: (i) for many simple C$^*$-algebras, the Thomsen semigroup is recovered functorially from the Elliott invariant, and this yields a new proof of Elliott's classification theorem for simple, unital AI algebras; (ii) for the algebras in (i), classification of their Hilbert modules is similar to the von Neumann algebra context; (iii) for the algebras in (i), approximate unitary equivalence of self-adjoint operators is characterised in terms of the Elliott invariant. 
0704.03989	Instability of an equilibrium of a partial differential equation	Analysis of PDEs (math.AP)	Authors:Michael Robinson	 Abstract: A nonlinear parabolic differential equation with a quadratic nonlinearity is presented which has at least one equilibrium. The linearization about this equilibrium is asymptotically stable, but by using a technique inspired by H. Fujita, we show that the equilibrium is unstable in the nonlinear setting. The perturbations used have the property that they are small in every $L^p$ norm, yet they result in solutions which fail to be global. 
0704.03990	On capillary-gravity waves generated by a slow moving object	Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)	Authors:Alexei Chepelianskii (LPCT, LPS), Frédéric Chevy (LKB - Lhomond), Elie Raphael (LPCT)	 Abstract: We investigate theoretically and experimentally the capillary-gravity waves created by a small object moving steadily at the water-air interface along a circular trajectory. It is well established that, for straight uniform motion, no steady waves appear at velocities below the minimum phase velocity $c_{min} = 23 \rm{cm \cdot s}^{-1}$. We show theoretically that no such velocity threshold exists for a steady circular motion, for which, even at small velocities, a finite wave drag is experienced by the object. This wave drag originates from the emission of a spiral-like wave pattern. Our results are in good agreement with direct experimental observations of the wave pattern created by a circularly moving needle in contact with water. Our study leads to new insights into the problem of animal locomotion at the water-air interface. 
0704.03991	Three-Year Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) Observations:  Foreground Polarization	Astrophysics (astro-ph)	Authors:A. Kogut, J. Dunkley, C. L. Bennett, O. Doré, B. Gold, M. Halpern, G. Hinshaw, N. Jarosik, E. Komatsu, M. R. Nolta, N. Odegard, L. Page, D. N. Spergel, G. S. Tucker, J. L. Weiland, E. Wollack, E. L. Wright	 Abstract: We present a full-sky model of polarized Galactic microwave emission based on three years of observations by the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) at frequencies from 23 to 94 GHz. The model compares maps of the Stokes Q and U components from each of the 5 WMAP frequency bands in order to separate synchrotron from dust emission, taking into account the spatial and frequency dependence of the synchrotron and dust components. This simple two-component model of the interstellar medium accounts for at least 97% of the polarized emission in the WMAP maps of the microwave sky. Synchrotron emission dominates the polarized foregrounds at frequencies below 50 GHz, and is comparable to the dust contribution at 65 GHz. The spectral index of the synchrotron component, derived solely from polarization data, is -3.2 averaged over the full sky, with a modestly flatter index on the Galactic plane. The synchrotron emission has mean polarization fraction 2--4% in the Galactic plane and rising to over 20% at high latitude, with prominent features such as the North Galactic Spur more polarized than the diffuse component. Thermal dust emission has polarization fraction 1% near the Galactic center, rising to 6% at the anti-center. Diffuse emission from high-latitude dust is also polarized with mean fractional polarization 0.036 +/- 0.011. 
0704.03992	Metric Properties of Conflict Sets	Metric Geometry (math.MG)	Authors:Lev Birbrair, Dirk Siersma	 Abstract: In this paper we show that the tangent cone of a conflict set in $R^n$ is a linear affine cone over a conflict set of smaller dimension and has dimension $n-1$. Moreover we give an example where the conflict sets is not normally embedded and not locally bi-Lipschitz equivalent to the corresponding tangent cone. 
0704.03993	Depolarization Currents in Fresh and Aged Corona Poled P(VDF-TFE) Films	Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)	Authors:S. N. Fedosov, A. E. Sergeeva, A. F. Butenko	 Abstract: Using short circuit and open circuit modifications of the thermally stimulated depolarization current technique, relaxation currents have been measured in corona poled copolymer of vinylidene fluoride with tetrafluoroethylene in samples stored after poling for either 1 day, or 16 month. Two well structured peaks observed in aged samples were attributed to relaxation of electret and ferroelectric components of the remnant polarization. In fresh samples the two components were mixed forming one broad peak. Relaxation of the space charge caused inversion of the current in the open circuit mode both in fresh and in aged samples. Space charge peaks extracted from the total current by appropriate calculations have shown that the trapped charges were more stable than the polarization. It was suggested that both the electret and the ferroelectric components of the remnant polarization were accompanied by either space, or surface charges. 
0704.03994	Covers of Elliptic Curves and the Lower Bound for Slopes of Effective  Divisors on $\bar{\mathcal M}_{g}$	Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)	Authors:Dawei Chen	 Abstract: Consider genus $g$ curves that admit degree $d$ covers to elliptic curves only branched at one point with a fixed ramification type. The locus of such covers forms a one parameter family $Y$ that naturally maps into the moduli space of stable genus $g$ curves $\bar{\mathcal M}_{g}$. We study the geometry of $Y$, and produce a combinatorial method by which to investigate its slope, irreducible components, genus and orbifold points. As a by-product of our approach, we find some equalities from classical number theory. Moreover, a correspondence between our method and the viewpoint of square-tiled surfaces is established. We also use our results to study the lower bound for slopes of effective divisors on $\bar{\mathcal M}_{g}$. 
0704.03995	Polynomial cocycles of Alexander quandles and applications	Geometric Topology (math.GT)	Authors:Kheira Ameur, Masahico Saito	 Abstract: Cocycles are constructed by polynomial expressions for Alexander quandles. As applications, non-triviality of some quandle homology groups are proved, and quandle cocycle invariants of knots are studied. In particular, for an infinite family of quandles, the non-triviality of quandle homology groups is proved for all odd dimensions. 
0704.03996	Lessons from Non-Abelian Plasma Instabilities in Two Spatial Dimensions	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Peter Arnold, Po-Shan Leang	 Abstract: Plasma instabilities can play a fundamental role in quark-gluon plasma equilibration in the high energy (weak coupling) limit. Early simulations of the evolution of plasma instabilities in non-abelian gauge theory, performed in one spatial dimension, found behavior qualitatively similar to traditional QED plasmas. Later simulations of the fully three-dimensional theory found different behavior, unlike traditional QED plasmas. To shed light on the origin of this difference, we study the intermediate case of two spatial dimensions. Depending on how the "two-dimensional'' theory is formulated, we can obtain either behavior. 
0704.03997	The solitons redistribution in Bose-Einstein condensate in quasiperiodic  optical lattice	Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)	Authors:G.N. Burlak, A.B. Klimov	 Abstract: We numerically study the dynamical excitations in Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) placed in periodic and quasi-periodic 2D optical lattice (OL). In case of the repulsive mean-field interaction the BEC quantum tunnelling leads to a progressive soliton's splitting and generating of secondary solitons, which migrate to closest trapping potential minima. A nontrivial soliton dynamics appears when a series of pi-pulses (phase kicks) are applied to the optical lattice. Such sudden perturbation produces a dynamic redistribution of the secondary solitons, leading to a formation of an artificial solitonic superlattice. Different geometries of OL are analyzed. 
0704.03998	Long Borel Hierarchies	Logic (math.LO)	Authors:Arnold W. Miller	 Abstract: We show that it is relatively consistent with ZF that the Borel hierarchy on the reals has length $\omega_2$. This implies that $\omega_1$ has countable cofinality, so the axiom of choice fails very badly in our model. A similar argument produces models of ZF in which the Borel hierarchy has length any given limit ordinal less than $\omega_2$, e.g., $\omega$ or $\omega_1+\omega_1$. Latex2e: 24 pages plus 8 page appendix Latest version at: www.math.wisc.edu/~miller 
0704.03999	Strongly Interacting Higgs Sector Without Technicolor	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:Chuan Liu	 Abstract: Several years ago, we proposed a modification of the Standard Model, in which the Higgs sector was stabilized by the addition of higher derivative operators, similar to Lee-Wick Electrodynamics. We studied this theory extensively, both using continuum Hamiltonian and path integral methods. We also reported detailed lattice studies of the higher derivative Higgs sector. In view of some recent revived interest in our original idea, we are providing here our extensive notes from the time period on this topic. The key results were already published in our papers at that time. The many additional details that we make available here were previously available only in Chuan Liu's UCSD Ph.D. thesis (1994). Very recently, our idea has been revived by other groups. In view of the renewed interest, and to perhaps correct some misconceptions in the literature, we are here making our original extensive notes available to the wider community. 
0704.04000	Radiative lepton flavor violating decays in the Randall Sundrum  background with localized leptons	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)	Authors:E. O. Iltan	 Abstract: We study the radiative lepton flavor violating l_i -> l_j\gamma decays in the two Higgs doublet model, respecting the Randall Sundrum scenario and estimate the contributions of the KK modes of left (right) handed charged lepton doublets (singlets) on the branching ratios. We observe that the branching ratios are sensitive to the contributions of the charged lepton KK modes. 
0704.04001	Warping and Supersymmetry Breaking	High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)	Authors:Michael R. Douglas, Jessie Shelton, Gonzalo Torroba	 Abstract: We analyze supersymmetry breaking by anti-self-dual flux in the deformed conifold. This theory has been argued to be a dual realization of susy breaking by antibranes. As such, one might expect it to lead to a hierarchically small breaking scale, but only if the warp factor is taken into account. We verify this by explicitly computing the warp-modified moduli space metric. This leads to a new term, with a power-like divergence at the conifold point, which lowers the breaking scale. We finally point out various puzzles regarding the gauge theory interpretation of these results. 
0704.04002	The Steenrod problem of realizing polynomial cohomology rings	Algebraic Topology (math.AT)	Authors:Kasper K. S. Andersen, Jesper Grodal	 Abstract: In this paper we completely classify which graded polynomial R-algebras in finitely many even degree variables can occur as the singular cohomology of a space with coefficients in R, a 1960 question of N. E. Steenrod, for a commutative ring R satisfying mild conditions. In the fundamental case R = Z, our result states that the only polynomial cohomology rings over Z which can occur, are tensor products of copies of H^*(CP^\infty;Z) = Z[x_2], H^*(BSU(n);Z) = Z[x_4,x_6,...,x_{2n}], and H^*(BSp(n):Z) = Z[x_4,x_8,...,x_{4n}] confirming an old conjecture. Our classification extends Notbohm's solution for R = F_p, p odd. Odd degree generators, excluded above, only occur if R is an F_2-algebra and in that case the recent classification of 2-compact groups by the authors can be used instead of the present paper. Our proofs are short and rely on the general theory of p-compact groups, but not on classification results for these. 
0704.04003	Weight structures vs. $t$-structures; weight filtrations, spectral  sequences, and complexes (for motives and in general)	K-Theory and Homology (math.KT)	Authors:M.V. Bondarko	 Abstract: This paper is dedicated to triangulated categories endowed with weight structures (a new notion; D. Pauksztello has independently introduced them as co-t-structures). This axiomatizes the properties of stupid truncations of complexes in $K(B)$. We also construct weight structures for Voevodsky's categories of motives and for various categories of spectra. A weight structure $w$ defines Postnikov towers of objects; these towers are canonical and functorial 'up to morphisms that are zero on cohomology'. For $Hw$ being the heart of $w$ (in $DM_{gm}$ we have $Hw=Chow$) we define a canonical conservative 'weakly exact' functor $t$ from our $C$ to a certain weak category of complexes $K_w(Hw)$. For any (co)homological functor $H:C\to A$ for an abelian $A$ we construct a weight spectral sequence $T:H(X^i[j])\implies H(X[i+j])$ where $(X^i)=t(X)$; it is canonical and functorial starting from $E_2$. This spectral sequences specializes to the 'usual' (Deligne's) weight spectral sequences for 'classical' realizations of motives and to Atiyah-Hirzebruch spectral sequences for spectra. Under certain restrictions, we prove that $K_0(C)\cong K_0(Hw)$ and $K_0(End C)\cong K_0(End Hw)$. The definition of a weight structure is almost dual to those of a t-structure; yet several properties differ. One can often construct a certain $t$-structure which is 'adjacent' to $w$ and vice versa. This is the case for the Voevodsky's $DM^{eff}_-$ (one obtains certain new Chow weight and t-structures for it; the heart of the latter is 'dual' to $Chow^{eff}$) and for the stable homotopy category. The Chow t-structure is closely related to unramified cohomology. 
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
==================================================
